{"AC ENG 20A":["AC ENG","Academic Writing","Grammar, sentence structure, paragraph and essay organization of formal written English.","Placement into AC ENG 20A."],"AC ENG 20B":["AC ENG","Academic Writing","Grammar, sentence structure, paragraph and essay organization of formal written English.","AC ENG 20A. Placement into AC ENG 20B is also accepted."],"AC ENG 20C":["AC ENG","Essentials of Academic Writing","Grammar, sentence structure, paragraph and essay organization of formal written English.","AC ENG 20B. Placement into AC ENG 20C is also accepted."],"AC ENG 20D":["AC ENG","Academic Writing","Grammar, sentence structure, paragraph and essay organization of formal written English.","AC ENG 20C"],"AC ENG 22A":["AC ENG","Academic English Reading and Vocabulary","Intensive reading exercises with occasional practice in extensive reading, focusing on comprehension, development of vocabulary, syntax, rhetorical features, reading strategies, and study skills.","Placement into AC ENG 22A is required."],"AC ENG 22B":["AC ENG","ESL Reading and Vocabulary","Extensive reading and discussion with emphasis on journal articles, textbook chapters, notetaking, and the interpretation of charts, diagrams, tables, and figures.",""],"AC ENG 29":["AC ENG","Special Topics in ESL","Directed and individualized work in English as a second language not covered in the AC ENG 20, 21, 22 sequence.",""],"AC ENG 139W":["AC ENG","Advanced Academic Writing Across the Curriculum","Designed for transfer students who speak English as a second language. Focuses on developing academic reading and writing skills including essay content, organization, vocabulary, and grammar. Academic content also covered.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"AC ENG 200":["AC ENG","Oral English Communication I","Designed to help students hear and produce the sounds of English as an International Language with greater accuracy and confidence. Focuses on pronunciation features (e.g., consonant sounds, consonant clusters, vowels, thought groups, and nuclear stress).",""],"AC ENG 201":["AC ENG","Oral English Communication II","Designed to help students develop conversational fluency in English as an International Language. Focuses on applying knowledge of linguistic features and communicative skills during conversational exchange in a variety of social, academic, and professional contexts.",""],"AC ENG 202":["AC ENG","Oral English Communication III","Designed to help students hone their public speaking skills in English as an International Language. Focuses on preparing, organizing, and delivering speeches and presentations and interacting with the audience, emphasizing skills needed in academic settings.","AC ENG 23A or AC ENG 23B"],"AC ENG 210":["AC ENG","Introduction to Graduate Research Writing","Designed to introduce key components and skills for successful graduate-level academic writing. Topics cover summarizing and synthesizing sources, understanding appropriate source use conventions, developing and organizing ideas for research writing, revising, and editing.",""],"AC ENG 211":["AC ENG","Graduate Writing for Scholarly Publication","Designed to help graduate students in the preparation of a conference paper or journal manuscript for publication. Topics cover writing for academic publication in their fields and understanding disciplinary source use conventions.",""],"AC ENG 212":["AC ENG","Thesis\/Dissertation Writing for Graduate Students","Designed to help graduate students in the preparation of a thesis\/dissertation (or proposal). Topics cover planning a thesis\/dissertation project, understanding the focuses and goals of different chapters, and practicing different ways of integrating sources to avoid plagiarism.",""],"AFAM 40A":["AFAM","African American Studies I","Discusses main contours of African American experience from the forced importation of Africans into the Americas in the late fifteenth century to the development of social movements in post-emancipation societies of the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries.",""],"AFAM 40B":["AFAM","African American Studies II","Introduction to the history of modern racial thinking in Western society and its relationship to the material contexts of racial oppression, with emphasis on its development in British colonies and U.S.",""],"AFAM 40C":["AFAM","African American Studies III","Introduction to theories of racial blackness in the modern world, with emphasis on developments in British colonies and U.S. Traces emergence of blackness as term of collective identity, social organization, and political mobilization.",""],"AFAM 50":["AFAM","Introductory Topics in African American Studies","Introduction to a broad range of topics in African American studies, exploring history, literature, art, culture, politics, and contemporary social issues. Topical organization of courses addresses issues that have been of importance historically and are reshaping the African diaspora today.",""],"AFAM 111A":["AFAM","Modern African American Art","Investigates the history of modern African American art; emphasis on the politics of representation. Examines art in a variety of media from material culture and textiles to painting and photography. Issues of migration, nationalism, gender, sexuality, and hybridity are discussed.",""],"AFAM 111B":["AFAM","Contemporary African American Art","Investigates the history of contemporary African American art; emphasis on the politics of representation. Explores art in a variety of media: painting, sculpture, photography, installation, and new media. Cultural politics, appropriation, identity, gender, sexuality, hybridity and civil rights issues discussed.",""],"AFAM 112A":["AFAM","Early African American Literature","Examines the earliest forms of black literary practices, including the jeremiad, the slave narrative, the pamphlet, poetry, the short story, and how these literary forms are related to the historical experiences of enslavement and emancipation.",""],"AFAM 112B":["AFAM","African American Literature 1900-Present","Examines individual literary forms and\/or authors, as well as movements such as the Harlem Renaissance and the Black Arts Movement. Explores how black literary practices represent the conditions of modern subjectivities and environments.",""],"AFAM 113":["AFAM","African American Cinema and Media","Explores the diversity of Black creative production and the historical, social, and economic forces that shaped their emergence. May include Black film, hip-hop culture, fine art, photography, and others.",""],"AFAM 114":["AFAM","International Cultures","Explores the various cultures of the African diaspora and their impacts on a global scale. Examines a diverse range of media, including music (reggae, hip-hop), literature, film, and others and the links between culture and social movements throughout the diaspora.",""],"AFAM 115":["AFAM","Race and Visual Representation","Examines film, documentary, fine art, photography, and other visual media to explore the multiple ways in which ideas about race are projected and woven through the visual landscape and the impacts this has on perpetuating social inequalities.",""],"AFAM 118":["AFAM","Topics in African American Humanities","Provides students with an opportunity to pursue advanced work in African American studies from one or more humanities approaches (literature, film and media studies, art history, and others).",""],"AFAM 125":["AFAM","African American Women in Art","Examines depictions of and by African American women in art and popular culture through a variety of media including textiles, painting, sculpture, photography, and installation. Focuses on African American women's experiences, perspectives, and strategies for contemporary representation.",""],"AFAM 128":["AFAM","Topics in Gender\/Sexuality","Expressions of genders and sexualities across the spectrum of African American experience and creativity.",""],"AFAM 134A":["AFAM","Caribbean History: Colonization to Emancipation","Exploration of the history of the archipelago from pre-Columbian times to the end of slavery; examining the impact of European colonization, decimation of the indigenous populations, African slavery, resistance, and emancipation; the unity and diversity of experience in region.",""],"AFAM 134B":["AFAM","Caribbean History: Emancipation to Independence","Post-emancipation and anti-colonial struggles ending with political independence for most of the region. Examines social, political, economic, cultural dimensions of post-emancipation period, including large-scale migration to Central America, the U.S., and Britain; the region's global cultural and political contribution.",""],"AFAM 137":["AFAM","History of the African Diaspora","Examines the causes and consequences of the multiple diasporas of African peoples since the sixteenth century in the Atlantic world, especially the Americas and Europe.",""],"AFAM 138":["AFAM","Topics in African American History","Studies in selected areas of African American history.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"AFAM 143":["AFAM","Topics in African American Music","Examines African American musical forms and traditions, such as blues, jazz, and reggae, in performance and\/or critical and theoretical contexts.",""],"AFAM 144":["AFAM","Topics in Expressive Forms","Examines various forms of aesthetic expression in the African diaspora, including dance, music, and the plastic arts, as well as artistic visions of black cyberspace, digital activism, film, video, and aesthetic conceptions of the future.",""],"AFAM 145":["AFAM","African Americans and Photography","Explores depictions of and by African Americans through photography. Examines the history of photography in relationship to African American culture through a variety of media from early daguerreotype processes to digital imagery.",""],"AFAM 151":["AFAM","Comparative Minority Politics","Examines the political experiences of Blacks, Latinos, and Asian Americans in the United States from roughly 1950 to the present. Focuses on how each group has pursued political empowerment via both conventional political channels and social movements.",""],"AFAM 152":["AFAM","African American Politics","Examines politics of African Americans in order to gain a broader perspective of the American political process. Major developments in African American politics (including the civil rights movement, Black presidential bids), continuing problem of racism, responsiveness of key governing institutions.",""],"AFAM 153":["AFAM","African American Psychology","Historical overview of the development of black psychology and the African American frame of reference. Topics include personality development, psychological assessment, issues in education, black mental health, and the role of the African American psychologist in the community.",""],"AFAM 154":["AFAM","African American Social Formations","Topics which promote critical investigation into the historical, political, and social formations associated with the Black Diaspora.",""],"AFAM 155":["AFAM","Intercultural Studies","Studies relationships between various cultural formations within the Black Diaspora and the exchange, amalgamations, and tensions between Black Diasporic formations and non-Black formations. Examines expressions of racialization as representation, adaption, and resistance.",""],"AFAM 156":["AFAM","African Societies and Politics","Examines the violent incorporation of Africa within European modernity. Places the discourse of Pan-Africanism, African Nationalisms, Negritude, African Marxism, and\/or African Socialism in juxtaposition to the forces of capitalism, colonialism, and imperialism that restructure African history.",""],"AFAM 157":["AFAM","Critical Race Theory","Introduction to Critical Race Theory and key American cases on racial inequality. Using this literature, examines the possibilities and pitfalls of legal claims of race, gender, and sexuality discrimination in the age of colorblindness.",""],"AFAM 158":["AFAM","Topics in African American Social Sciences","Provides students with an opportunity to pursue advanced work in African American studies from one or more social science approaches (psychology, sociology, anthropology, economics, and others).",""],"AFAM 159":["AFAM","Prisons and Public Education","Looks at the connections between schools and prisons in the United States. Students learn about ideas that push beyond common trope of the \"school to prison pipeline.\".",""],"AFAM 162W":["AFAM","The Black Protest Tradition","History and discourses of the black protest tradition. Traces emergence of black protest against racial slavery and white supremacy from the early colonial period to present and the complex elaboration of identity politics within black communities in the twentieth century.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"AFAM 163":["AFAM","Seminar in African American Studies","Explores theoretical and methodological issues in Black Studies via concentrated work on a specific ensemble of questions. Emphasis is on generating student responses to the material covered through oral and written reports.",""],"AFAM 198":["AFAM","Directed Group Study","Special topics through directed reading. Paper required.",""],"AFAM 199":["AFAM","Independent Study","Investigation of special topics through directed reading. Paper required.",""],"AFAM 399":["AFAM","University Teaching","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"ANATOMY 200":["ANATOMY","Research in Anatomy","Individual research supervised by a particular faculty member.",""],"ANATOMY 200R":["ANATOMY","Research in Anatomy and Neurobiology for First-Year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in the Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"ANATOMY 201":["ANATOMY","Human Gross Anatomy","Study and dissection of the human body, including muscular, skeletal, nervous, and cardiovascular systems. Emphasis on both normal and abnormal structure and function.",""],"ANATOMY 202B":["ANATOMY","Human Neuroscience","Study of the human nervous system at the systems level including the physiology and anatomy of sensory, motor, and integrative functions.","ANATOMY 202A"],"ANATOMY 203A":["ANATOMY","Human Microscopoic Anatomy","Lecture and laboratory course on human microscopic anatomy. Emphasis is on functional implications of structure of cells and tissues.",""],"ANATOMY 203B":["ANATOMY","Human Microscopoic Anatomy","Lecture and laboratory course on human microscopic anatomy. Emphasis is on functional implications of structure of cells and tissues.","ANATOMY 203A"],"ANATOMY 206":["ANATOMY","Tutorial in Anatomy","Series of tutorials on advanced topics in anatomy.",""],"ANATOMY 206B":["ANATOMY","Neuroanatomy","Exploration of special topics in neuroanatomy.  Primarily library work, but study of prepared slides also included.",""],"ANATOMY 206C":["ANATOMY","Tutorial in Microanatomy","Special topics in microanatomy.  Primarily library work, but study of prepared histological slides and photographs included.",""],"ANATOMY 210A":["ANATOMY","Systems Neuroscience","Study of the mammalian nervous system at the systems level. Anatomy and physiology of sensory, motor, and integrative functions.",""],"ANATOMY 215":["ANATOMY","Epilepsy as a Window to Mechanisms of Neuronal Plasticity","Understanding the mechanisms of brain disorders provides novel insights into the normal function of neurons and circuits. Discusses approaches to studying mechanisms of brain function ranging from imaging, the use of models and others to study epilepsy.",""],"ANATOMY 227A":["ANATOMY","Current Topics in Neuroscience","Focuses on critical reading, presentation, and discussion of current literature in neuroscience research.",""],"ANATOMY 227B":["ANATOMY","Current Topics in Neuroscience","Focuses on critical reading, presentation, and discussion of current literature in neuroscience research.",""],"ANATOMY 227C":["ANATOMY","Current Topics in Neuroscience","Focuses on critical reading, presentation, and discussion of current literature in neuroscience research.",""],"ANATOMY 230":["ANATOMY","Topics in Translational Neuroscience","One-hour seminar presentation by participating faculty or guest lecturer and open to the science community, followed by one-hour student discussion of the lecture topic or related topic. Students are responsible for presentations and readings.",""],"ANATOMY 230A":["ANATOMY","Molecular, Cellular, & Developmental Neurobiology","Molecular aspects of the structure and function of neurons and glia including neurotransmission, synaptic modulation, and channels.  Neural development at the cellular and molecular level including neurogenesis, pattern formation, trophic factors, axonal growth, and synaptic rearrangement.",""],"ANATOMY 292A":["ANATOMY","Topics in Neural Circuit Mapping","Presentations\/lectures by invited faculty and student discussion.",""],"ANATOMY 292B":["ANATOMY","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"ANATOMY 292C":["ANATOMY","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"ANTHRO 2A":["ANTHRO","Introduction to Sociocultural Anthropology","Introduction to cultural diversity and the methods used by anthropologists to account for it. Family relations, economic activities, politics, gender, and religion in a wide range of societies. Stresses the application of anthropological methods to research problems.",""],"ANTHRO 2B":["ANTHRO","Introduction to Biological Anthropology","Evolutionary theory and processes, comparative primate fossil record, human variation, and the adequacy of theory, and empirical data.",""],"ANTHRO 2C":["ANTHRO","Introduction to Archaeology","Archaeological theory and cultural processes with emphasis on the American Southwest, Mesoamerica, and Mesopotamia.",""],"ANTHRO 2D":["ANTHRO","Introduction to Language and Culture","Explores what the study of language can reveal about ourselves as bearers of culture. After introducing some basic concepts, examines how cultural knowledge is linguistically organized and how language might shape our perception of the world.",""],"ANTHRO 10A":["ANTHRO","Probability and Statistics","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Emphasizes examples from sociology, anthropology, and related social science disciplines.",""],"ANTHRO 10B":["ANTHRO","Probability and Statistics","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Emphasizes examples from sociology, anthropology, and related social science disciplines.","SOCIOL 10A or ANTHRO 10A"],"ANTHRO 10C":["ANTHRO","Probability and Statistics","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Emphasizes examples from sociology, anthropology, and related social science disciplines.","SOCIOL 10B or ANTHRO 10B"],"ANTHRO 20A":["ANTHRO","People, Cultures, and Environmental Sustainability","Anthropological consideration of global environmental sustainability from the perspective of human cultures and communities. Causes and consequences of population growth, natural resource management, environmental law, environmental ethics. Case studies emphasize tropical rain forests, arid lands of Africa and North America.",""],"ANTHRO 25A":["ANTHRO","Environmental Injustice","Explores how pollution, climate change, and other environmental problems impact people around the world, often worsening social inequality. Students use social science frameworks to understand environmental problems, different interpretations of these problems, and how people have organized for political change.",""],"ANTHRO 30A":["ANTHRO","Global Issues in Anthropological Perspective","Explores anthropological perspectives on issues of importance in an increasingly global society. Topics include emphases on ethnic conflict; identity; immigration and citizenship; religion and religious diversity; medical anthropology; legal anthropology; development and economic change; gender.",""],"ANTHRO 30C":["ANTHRO","Visual Anthropology   ","Focusing on the construction of culture through visuality, this course engages traditional ethnographic films, popular media and anthropological texts to analyze ethics, \"reality\" and fiction; propaganda and documentary, construction of a frame, the responsibility of the filmmaker, photographer, and anthropologist.",""],"ANTHRO 41A":["ANTHRO","Global Cultures and Society","Offers a general overview of the rise of global interdependence in political, economic, demographic, and cultural terms. Considers what drove people from relative isolation into intensified intercourse with one another, and investigates the consequences of this shift.",""],"ANTHRO 45A":["ANTHRO","Science, Culture, Power","Examines science in historical and cultural context (Scientific and Darwinian Revolutions, Manhattan Project, contemporary biosciences) to understand scientific truths and their limits, scientists as social actors, and vital intersections of sciences with religion, politics, gender, and other forms of culture.",""],"ANTHRO 48":["ANTHRO","Archaeology or Aliens?: Conspiracy, Pseudoscience, and the Emergence of Civilizations","Archaeology has inspired (and sometimes actively encouraged) various theories about aliens, lost civilizations, dark conspiracies, and mysterious technologies. Does such an intimate relationship with these fantastic notions undermine archaeology and its claims of authoritative knowledge about past cultures.",""],"ANTHRO 100A":["ANTHRO","Ethnography and Anthropological Methods","Anthropological research, learning ethnographic methods, and how to choose a research topic, construct research questions, explore library resources, collect data, and write an analytical paper on research findings.","r corequisite: ANTHRO 2A"],"ANTHRO 100B":["ANTHRO","Anthropology Careers","Gives students the skills and perspective needed to leverage undergraduate anthropology education in diverse career domains. Students explore different career domains (health care, tech development, environmental governance, etc.) and learn to represent themselves professionally.",""],"ANTHRO 121AW":["ANTHRO","Kinship and Social Organization","Organization of social life primarily in preindustrial societies. Theories of kinship, marriage regulations, sexual behavior, and social roles. Comparisons of biological, psychological, sociological, and economic explanations of social organization.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ANTHRO 121D":["ANTHRO","Cross-Cultural Studies of Gender","Explores the construction of gender in national and transnational contexts. Special attention is given to how race, sexuality, class, and global inequalities shape different experiences of gender, and how gender structures political, institutional, and social life across the world.",""],"ANTHRO 121J":["ANTHRO","Urban Anthropology","Cultural roles of cities and the processes of urbanization in a comparative perspective. Focus includes nonwestern, nonindustrial societies of past and present; the relationship between modern urban centers across different world regions. Themes covered include: inequality, race, migration, poverty, capitalism.",""],"ANTHRO 124":["ANTHRO","Gold: The Alchemy of Socio-Economic Practice","Before bitcoin, before derivatives and mortgage-backed securities, before even writing itself, there was gold. Explore gold's role in the development of culture, politics, and power. From Pharaohs to modern financial wizards, gold has impacted and mediated social life.",""],"ANTHRO 125":["ANTHRO","Anthropology of Debt","Explores how debt has shaped culture across varied contexts geographically and historically. In what ways have societies naturalized indebtedness, taken it for granted as a fact of life, and used it for organizing social relations.",""],"ANTHRO 125A":["ANTHRO","Economic Anthropology","Economic systems in comparative perspective: production, distribution, and consumption in market and non-market societies; agricultural development in the third world.","One course in general science, anthropology, economics, geography, or sociology."],"ANTHRO 125B":["ANTHRO","Ecological Anthropology","Studies relationships between human communities and their natural environments. The role of environment in shaping culture; effects of extreme environments on human biology and social organization; anthropologist's role in studying global environmental problems, e.g., African famine, tropical rain forests destruction.","ANTHRO 2A or ANTHRO 2B or ANTHRO 2C"],"ANTHRO 125C":["ANTHRO","Environmental Anthropology","Introduces students to anthropological and qualitative research on the relationship of humans, non-humans, and environments. Focuses on how to analyze and evaluate social and cultural differences in environmental perception, relations, justice, governance, sustainability, and cosmology.","ANTHRO 2A or ANTHRO 2B or ANTHRO 2C or ANTHRO 2D"],"ANTHRO 125F":["ANTHRO","Humans and Other Animals","Explores peoples' relationships with other animals, a topic that continues to shape anthropological understandings of humanness, culture, and the social.  Subthemes: symbol and matter, nature\/culture, ontologies, relations, moralities, ecologies, futures.","ANTHRO 2A or ANTHRO 2B or ANTHRO 2D"],"ANTHRO 125U":["ANTHRO","Immigration, Nation, and Media","Examines media shapes and reflects public opinion on immigration and its representation of immigrants, citizens, and ideas about the nation, and who belongs and who is a potential threat; as well as the relationship between scholars and journalists.",""],"ANTHRO 125X":["ANTHRO","Transnational Migration","Examines the movement of people across national borders, governmentality and the role of state practices to control populations, and issues of citizenship, belonging, and identity. Examples are drawn from the United States, Europe, Latin America, Asia, and Africa.",""],"ANTHRO 125Z":["ANTHRO","Arabs and Muslims in the US","Offers a critical academic study of Islam in America, focusing on the core tenets of belief, the diversity of practices, and historical transformations that have taken place since the arrival of Muslims in the United States.",""],"ANTHRO 126":["ANTHRO","Cultures of the Middle East","The diversity of cultures and peoples who constitute the Middle East demonstrates the failure of much contemporary media and discourse to understand this region. Students learn about the broad scope of the contemporary Middle East through an ethnographic lens.",""],"ANTHRO 126A":["ANTHRO","Elite Cultures","The distinctive contribution that ethnographic studies have made to the understanding of elites past and present, in particular societies and globally.",""],"ANTHRO 127":["ANTHRO","Controversies, Courts, Cultures: The Anthropology of Law","Assesses the contributions anthropology has made to legal scholarship, reviewing historical and contemporary themes. Considers both comparative questions of law's norms, structures, and practices around the globe, and the specific insights anthropology offers about contemporary U.S. law.",""],"ANTHRO 127A":["ANTHRO","Law and Modernity","The rise and spread of Enlightenment legal traditions, social contract theory, individual rights, ideologies of \"liberty, equality, fraternity\"; contradictions of liberal law, its understandings of \"primitive\" and \"civilized\"; pervasive myths of property, difference, race, and rights. Reading- and writing-intensive.",""],"ANTHRO 127D":["ANTHRO","Anthropology of Law ","Introduces the anthropological study of law through a focus on the foundations of this subfield, its primary methodologies, and several important topics of inquiry, including policing, immigration, and structural inequalities. Provides an international perspective on law and society.",""],"ANTHRO 128A":["ANTHRO","Science, Technology, Controversy","Explores ways in which the social sciences conceive of science as a sociocultural practice. Emphasis on literature in Science and Technology Studies (STS), especially writings that concern the relationship of science to space and place, power, and politics.",""],"ANTHRO 128B":["ANTHRO","Race, Gender, and Science","Perfect for pre-health, science, and social science majors wanting to appreciate how science and society interact. Race and gender as biological and socio-cultural constructs are examined. Questions explored: What is disease? What is science? What are social and biological differences.",""],"ANTHRO 128C":["ANTHRO","Digital Cultures     ","Explores cultural and political implications of the infotech revolution and the ways new media are used around the world, new cultural practices and spaces (e.g., cybercafes), debates surrounding the meanings of these new technologies, and their implications for transforming society.","ANTHRO 2A and (ANTHRO 2B or ANTHRO 2C or ANTHRO 2D)"],"ANTHRO 129":["ANTHRO","Special Topics: Social and Economic Anthropology","Studies in selected areas of Social and Economic Anthropology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ANTHRO 132A":["ANTHRO","Psychological Anthropology","Cultural differences and similarities in personality and behavior.  Child-rearing practices and consequent adult personality characteristics, biocultural aspects of child development and attachment, culture and behavior evolutionary models, politically linked personality, cognitive anthropology, psychology of narrative forms, comparative national character studies.","ANTHRO 2A or PSYCH 7A or (PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSY BEH 11A and PSY BEH 11B and PSY BEH 11C)"],"ANTHRO 134A":["ANTHRO","Medical Anthropology","Introduces students to cross-cultural perspectives and critical theories in anthropological studies of medicine. Special attention is given to diverse ways of understanding bodies, illnesses, and therapeutic practices in our changing world.",""],"ANTHRO 134B":["ANTHRO","Cultures of Biomedicine","An introduction to the anthropolobical study of biomedicine and biotechnology.  Topics include medicalization, experimentation and discovery, diagnosis, expertise, health activism, and biotechnology.",""],"ANTHRO 134C":["ANTHRO","Medicine, Food, and Health","With anthropological studies of edible things as its foundation, this course explores topics related to the relationship between medical knowledge, eating, and health from a medical anthropological perspective.","ANTHRO 2A or ANTHRO 2B or ANTHRO 2D"],"ANTHRO 134F":["ANTHRO","Anthropology of the Body","Examines human bodies as both biological and sociocultural entities and explores the relationship among mind, body, and society cross-culturally. Topics include embodiment; race, sex, gender, and the body; somatization; control of the body; commodified bodies; and hybrid\/cyborg bodies.",""],"ANTHRO 134H":["ANTHRO","Anthropology of Food","Examines how food communicates ideas about ethnocentrism, disgust, privilege, gender, race, labor, social identities and hierarchies, globalization, power, and the \"Western diet\" and its health consequences.",""],"ANTHRO 134I":["ANTHRO","Comics and Medicine ","Patients, caregivers, and healers have increasingly described their illness experiences in comics format, offering therapeutic value for both producers and readers. Read and analyze comics about disability, chronic and mental illness, epidemics, caregiving, dementia, cancer, and health justice.",""],"ANTHRO 134N":["ANTHRO","Disease, Health, and Inequality","Examines the relationships among disease, health, and social inequality in the U.S. and globally. Topics include infectious and chronic disease case studies, health policy, and strategies for promoting health equity.",""],"ANTHRO 136A":["ANTHRO","Nationalism and Ethnicity in the Contemporary World","An exploration of the concepts of identity, culture, ethnicity, race, and nation through ethnographic cases, with a view to asking larger questions: how do people create nativeness and foreignness? How does \"culture\" get worked into contemporary racisms and nationalisms.",""],"ANTHRO 136B":["ANTHRO","History of Anthropological Theory","Provides foundational knowledge in the discipline of anthropology by reviewing competing approaches in anthropological theory, from the nineteenth century to the present. Covers historically fundamental approaches--social evolutionism, functionalism--and recent movements such as feminism, cultural studies, poststructuralism, and postmodernism.",""],"ANTHRO 136D":["ANTHRO","Conflict Resolution in Cross-Cultural Perspective","Examines theories of conflict management. Analyzes how conflict is mitigated in diverse cultures: at the interpersonal level, between groups, and on the international scale. Students discuss readings, hear from conflict management practitioners, and simulate negotiations.",""],"ANTHRO 136G":["ANTHRO","Colonialism and Gender","An anthropological enquiry into the ways colonial relations of power have been structured and gendered throughout the world, and to what effect. Examines the social locations of men and women in the everyday exercise of colonial and imperial power.",""],"ANTHRO 136K":["ANTHRO","The Woman and the Body","Probes culture and politics of the female body in contemporary American life. Focusing on \"feminine beauty,\" examines diverse notions of beauty, bodily practices, and body politics embraced by American women of different classes, ethnicities, and sexualities.",""],"ANTHRO 138":["ANTHRO","Prisons and Public Education","Looks at the connections between schools and prisons in the United States. Students learn about ideas that push beyond common trope of the \"school to prison pipeline.\".",""],"ANTHRO 139":["ANTHRO","Special Topics in Cultural and Psychological Anthropology","Studies in selected areas of Cultural and Psychological Anthropology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ANTHRO 140":["ANTHRO","Sex and Conquest in Latin America","Competing ideas of masculinity and femininity, sexual violence, sexual identities, and gendered hierarchies informed how the Spanish engaged in military and religious domination of Mexican and Andean communities, as well as the forms of native resistance throughout colonial Latin America.",""],"ANTHRO 141A":["ANTHRO","Ancient Civilization of Mexico and the Southwest","The prehistory and cultural evolution of the civilization which originated in Mexico, including the Olmecs, Aztecs, Toltecs, Maya, and Zapotec, as well as the Pueblos of the Southwestern U.S. Topics include the origins of food production and of the state.",""],"ANTHRO 146":["ANTHRO","Consumption and Culture","Our modern \"society of the spectacle\" often equates your consumption to your very humanity. Explores the ways in which our desire for things expresses our identity, politics, place within society, and how what we consume dominates social life.",""],"ANTHRO 147":["ANTHRO","Egyptomania","An exploration into the archaeological heritage and cultures of ancient Egypt. Also examines how ancient Egypt became appropriated as a popular cultural phenomenon and site of scholarship in the centuries after the Pharaohs.",""],"ANTHRO 147A":["ANTHRO","Archaeology of the Islamic World","The archaeological record connected with the Islamic tradition spans nearly 1,500 years and stretches from Spain to South East Asia. Working with artifacts and other materials, students learn about the sites and historical transformations associated with Islam and Muslim societies.",""],"ANTHRO 147B":["ANTHRO","Archaeology, Politics, and Identity","Archaeologists don't excavate in a political vacuum. Their research has profound consequences for the ways in which people identify with and claim their cultural heritage. Examines archaeology's role in constructing such identities through the traces of the past.",""],"ANTHRO 148":["ANTHRO","I Dig UCI","An introduction to archaeological fieldwork through participation in an active excavation on campus. Students engage with research design and learn the foundational methods of archaeological recovery: survey, mapping, sampling strategies, documentation, excavation, artifact identification, and interpretation.",""],"ANTHRO 149":["ANTHRO","Special Topics in Archaeology","Studies in selected areas of Archaeology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ANTHRO 150A":["ANTHRO","Language and Social Cognition","Explores the relationship between language and cognition in social and cultural contexts. The overall goal is to think through how language structure and use impact how individuals perceive, think about, and understand the world around them.",""],"ANTHRO 151A":["ANTHRO","Improvisation, Language, and Culture","Addresses improvisation, both in performance and in everyday life. Examines improvisation as the \"flexible regulation\" of everyday behavior by exploring different scholarly treatments of language and interaction, and working on developing actual theatrical improvisation skills.",""],"ANTHRO 152A":["ANTHRO","Language Origins: Evolution, Genetics, and the Brain","Examines how human language(s) may have originated. Studies pertinent techniques (reconstruction) and addresses related questions, including is our language faculty inborn (i.e., genetically encoded)? Can brain imaging and population genetics research help to unlock this mystery of human evolution?.",""],"ANTHRO 162A":["ANTHRO","Peoples and Cultures of Latin America","Surveys the prehistory of Latin America and its indigenous cultures, emphasizing the impact of colonial rule, capitalism, and 20th-century transformations.  Emphasis on communities from several countries. In some years, emphasis on comparisons between the Latin American and Caribbean experiences.",""],"ANTHRO 162B":["ANTHRO","Indian North America","A survey of indigenous peoples in North America: American Indians, Alaska Natives, First Nations, Native Americans. Tribal populations and geographic distributions, political and social organization, sovereignty, self-determination, intergovernmental relations; cultural continuity and change; management, preservation, development of environments\/resources.",""],"ANTHRO 162D":["ANTHRO","Anthropology of the United States","Examines anthropological research in and of the United States. Topics include race, class, identity, politics, law, and media.",""],"ANTHRO 163A":["ANTHRO","Peoples of the Pacific","The cultural history and recent developments among the Pacific peoples of Polynesia, Micronesia, Melanesia, New Guinea, and Australia.",""],"ANTHRO 164P":["ANTHRO","Peoples and Cultures of Post-Soviet Eurasia","Examines the cultures and political conflicts of the more than 130 indigenous ethnic groups in the European and Asian territories of the former U.S.S.R. Emphasis is on the theoretical issues of ethnicity, nationalism, and conflict management.",""],"ANTHRO 165A":["ANTHRO","Modern Iran: Cinema and the City","Exploring modern Iran through film, literature, photography, travel writing, and philosophy and social science texts that introduce students to important concepts in post-colonial studies, social thought, war culture, religion, and media as experienced through the paradigm of a non-Western modernity.",""],"ANTHRO 169":["ANTHRO","Special Topics in Area Studies","Studies in selected areas of Anthropology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ANTHRO 180AW":["ANTHRO","Anthropology Majors Writing Seminar","Anthropological theory designed especially for majors in Anthropology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ANTHRO 190":["ANTHRO","Senior Thesis","Senior thesis with Anthropology faculty.",""],"ANTHRO H190A":["ANTHRO","Honors Research Design","Students design a research project and articulate its goals and significance. Written work consists of a research proposal describing the research questions, the relevant literature, methods of data collection and analysis, and ethical considerations.","r corequisite: ANTHRO 199"],"ANTHRO H190B":["ANTHRO","Honors Field Research","Students begin or continue ethnographic field research and gain experience with a variety of data collection methods, including participant-observation, interviews, surveys, and the study of archival and documentary materials.","r corequisite: ANTHRO 199 and ANTHRO H190A"],"ANTHRO H190C":["ANTHRO","Honors Research Analysis","Students apply qualitative data analysis techniques to ethnographic data collected as part of their Honors research.","r corequisite: ANTHRO H190B and ANTHRO 199. Anthropology Honors ONLY."],"ANTHRO H190W":["ANTHRO","Honors Thesis Writing","Students draft a senior honors thesis (typically) with the following sections: problem statement, literature review, ethnographic background, and descriptions of the methods, results, and conclusions.","r corequisite: ANTHRO H190C and ANTHRO 199. Anthropology Honors ONLY. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. "],"ANTHRO 197":["ANTHRO","Field Study","Field study with Anthropology faculty.",""],"ANTHRO 198":["ANTHRO","Directed Group Study","Directed study with Anthropology faculty.",""],"ANTHRO 199":["ANTHRO","Independent Study","Independent research with Anthropology faculty.",""],"ANTHRO 202A":["ANTHRO","Proseminar in Anthropology","Year-long intensive introduction to the history of anthropological thought and reading in classical and contemporary ethnography for first-year graduate students.",""],"ANTHRO 202B":["ANTHRO","Proseminar in Anthropology","Year-long intensive introduction to the history of anthropological thought and reading in classical and contemporary ethnography for first-year graduate students.","ANTHRO 202A"],"ANTHRO 202C":["ANTHRO","Proseminar in Anthropology","Year-long intensive introduction to the history of anthropological thought and reading in classical and contemporary ethnography for first-year graduate students.","ANTHRO 202B"],"ANTHRO 204A":["ANTHRO","Proseminar in Medicine, Science, and Technology","Explores the phenomena studied by \"medical anthropology\" and \"science and technology studies\" are inextricably linked, and how understanding formations requires moving between disparate fields of inquiry.  Required for students pursuing a Graduate Certificate in Anthropoligies of Medicine, Science, and Technology.",""],"ANTHRO 215A":["ANTHRO","Ethnographic Methods","Exposes students to diverse methods, both traditional and experimental, used in anthropological ethnographic research. Students gain experience practicing diverse methods, and learn to select methods appropriate to particular study designs and contexts.",""],"ANTHRO 215B":["ANTHRO","Research Design","Introduces research design for anthropology, including concept work and mapping, research topic and aims development, research question construction, and fieldwork planning.","ANTHRO 215A"],"ANTHRO 215C":["ANTHRO","Grant and Proposal Writing","Focuses on production, critique, and revision of student research proposals. A practical seminar designed to improve student proposals, help students through the application processes, and increase students' chances of obtaining support for their research.","ANTHRO 215B"],"ANTHRO 230D":["ANTHRO","Ethnography and its Collaborative Futures","Structured readings of selected career-making ethnographic works, past and present, with an emphasis on how ethnographic projects evolve into diverse, collaborative projects.",""],"ANTHRO 230F":["ANTHRO","Ethnography","Explores the theory and practice of ethnography with a focus on anthropology, the discipline most associated with ethnography. Students are exposed to the theoretical underpinnings of ethnographic work, traditional and innovative practices, and sample ethnographies.",""],"ANTHRO 235A":["ANTHRO","Transnational Migration","Examines borders and boundaries as material and semiotic constructs. Drawing upon an array of literatures, but loosely situated in U.S. geo\/biopolitics, explores transformative troublings of places, spaces, borders, and bodies of all sorts.",""],"ANTHRO 240A":["ANTHRO","Economic Anthropology","Classic and contemporary theory in economic anthropology. Case studies: Latin America (primarily Mexico and the Andes), Africa, and the Pacific. Substantive topics: non-market exchange, markets and marketplaces, households, gender, management of common property (fisheries, pastoral lands, forests), labor, and development.",""],"ANTHRO 245A":["ANTHRO","Seminar in Political Anthropology","Explores anthropological approaches to politics. Covers a range of issues and topics, including: theories of culture, power, and hegemony; approaches to colonial and post-colonial relations of global inequality; and ethnographic approaches to the modern state.",""],"ANTHRO 246":["ANTHRO","Feminist Anthropology","Examines feminist anthropology's rise as an interdisciplinary field. Paying special attention to issues of power, subjectivity, and authority in the research encounter, feminist anthropologists' major contributions to ethnography, gender studies, queer studies, and cultural anthropology are surveyed.",""],"ANTHRO 246E":["ANTHRO","Capital and Empire","Examines theories of capital and empire via anthropological theory, post\/colonial critique, feminist theory, and Black political thought. Moreover, it examines social movements, geo\/political trajectories and formations, and political economic trends that have emerged after the 2008 financial crisis.",""],"ANTHRO 247A":["ANTHRO","Structuralism and Post-Structuralism","Traces recent theoretical discussions and arguments over the philosophical and historical \"subject\" from structuralist decenterings toward the characteristically \"post-structuralist\" contemporary concern with the historical and political constitution of subjectivities and subject positions.",""],"ANTHRO 249A":["ANTHRO","Humanism and Posthumanism","Examines alternative forms of human, humanisms, and posthumanisms to explore the inherent ambiguities and shifting boundaries of knowing and being human, and to venture into modes of analysis that problematize the universality and globality of liberal humanism.",""],"ANTHRO 250A":["ANTHRO","The Cultural Politics of Visual Representation","Develops a theoretical framework for analyzing and reading visual images. Images, as cultural productions, are steeped in the values, ideologies, and taken-for-granted beliefs of the culture which produced them and a political economy that is class, race, and gender inflected.",""],"ANTHRO 252A":["ANTHRO","Queer Anthropology","Explores historical and contemporary scholarship that employs ethnographic approaches to address the discursive construction of sexuality. Also examines how the discipline of anthropology has been shaped by the study of sexuality.",""],"ANTHRO 253A":["ANTHRO","Design, Aesthetics, and Social Life","Anthropology has only recently recognized that design demands consideration as a cultural form linked to, yet nonetheless distinct from, other aesthetic endeavors. Course is largely oriented toward collaboratively working out a conceptual basis for a distinctly anthropological approach to design.",""],"ANTHRO 254":["ANTHRO","Digital Anthropology","Examines \"the digital\" from an anthropological perspective by exploring ethnographic research on digital culture and using anthropological frameworks to approach the digital and the human. Readings are interdisciplinary, including work from history and communications.",""],"ANTHRO 255A":["ANTHRO","Disability Worlds","Explores disability from a range of methodological and theoretical perspectives. Examines the genealogy of disability in anthropology and related disciplines, with an emphasis on ethnographic work. Topics addressed include access, embodiment, politics, selfhood, and sexuality.",""],"ANTHRO 256A":["ANTHRO","Ethnographies of Technology","Surveys current ethnographic research pertaining to technologies, technical systems, and infrastructures.",""],"ANTHRO 256B":["ANTHRO","Secrecy, Security, and Surveillance","Explores secrecy and security as fundamental to constructions of public and private domains, relations of citizenship and sovereignty, the militarization of everyday life, and the ways that the fabrics of societies are woven of both trust and deceit.",""],"ANTHRO 257A":["ANTHRO","Natures and Environments","Examines social scientific understandings of natural contexts and human milieus via a survey of key analytic categories. Begins by examining historical and ongoing definitions and problems organized around \"nature\" and \"environment\" as separate but imbricated concepts.",""],"ANTHRO 259A":["ANTHRO","Dissertation Writing Seminar","Intended for advanced, post-fieldwork Anthropology graduate students. Emphasis on the presentation of research design and results, problems of ethnographic writing, and qualitative and quantitative data and analysis. Prerequisites: post-fieldwork; graduate standing in Anthropology or consent of instructor."," post-fieldwork; graduate standing in Anthropology or consent of instructor."],"ANTHRO 260":["ANTHRO","Critical Medical Anthropology","Reading-intensive graduate seminar offers an overview of theoretical and ethnographic approaches to illness and healing in different settings, while also studying the political economic distribution of risks that contribute to disease. Students develop their own research papers integrating course readings.",""],"ANTHRO 261":["ANTHRO","Anthropology of the Mind ","Reading-intensive graduate seminar looks at emergence of mind\/soul in modern age and similar concepts across cultural and historical contexts; studies psychiatric anthropological approaches to trauma, the subconscious, dreaming, madness. Students develop their own research papers integrating course readings.",""],"ANTHRO 289":["ANTHRO","Special Topics in Anthropology","Studies in selected areas of Anthropology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ANTHRO 290":["ANTHRO","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Anthropology faculty.",""],"ANTHRO 299":["ANTHRO","Independent Study","Independent research with Anthropology faculty.",""],"ARABIC 1A":["ARABIC","Fundamentals of Arabic","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Arabic. Using real world texts, provides a firm foundation in the orthography, grammar, syntax, and vocabulary of Modern Standard Arabic. Introduces students to Arab world cultures.","Placement into ARABIC 1A."],"ARABIC 1B":["ARABIC","Fundamentals of Arabic","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Arabic. Using real world texts, provides a firm foundation in the orthography, grammar, syntax, and vocabulary of Modern Standard Arabic. Introduces students to Arab world cultures.","ARABIC 1A. ARABIC 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARABIC 1B is also accepted."],"ARABIC 1C":["ARABIC","Fundamentals of Arabic","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Arabic. Using real world texts, provides a firm foundation in the orthography, grammar, syntax, and vocabulary of Modern Standard Arabic. Introduces students to Arab world cultures.","ARABIC 1B or ARABIC S1AB. ARABIC 1B with a grade of C or better. ARABIC S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement is also accepted."],"ARABIC 2A":["ARABIC","Intermediate Arabic Language and Culture","Designed for students to advance their Arabic language skills to intermediate level. Students will develop their understanding of grammar and syntax to a more sophisticated level. Facilitates intermediate-level reading, writing, and speaking skills. Fosters college-level cultural literacy.","ARABIC 1C or ARABIC S1BC. ARABIC 1C with a grade of C or better. ARABIC S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARABIC 2A is also accepted."],"ARABIC 2B":["ARABIC","Intermediate Arabic Language and Culture","Designed for students to advance their Arabic language skills to intermediate level. Students will develop their understanding of grammar and syntax to a more sophisticated level. Facilitates intermediate-level reading, writing, and speaking skills. Fosters college-level cultural literacy.","ARABIC 2A. ARABIC 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARABIC 2B is also accepted."],"ARABIC 2C":["ARABIC","Intermediate Arabic Language and Culture","Designed for students to advance their Arabic language skills to intermediate level. Students will develop their understanding of grammar and syntax to a more sophisticated level.  Facilitates intermediate-level reading, writing, and speaking skills. Fosters college-level cultural literacy.","ARABIC 2B. ARABIC 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARABIC 2C is also accepted. "],"ARABIC 10A":["ARABIC","Arabic Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. ARABIC 10A is for language mentors.",""],"ARABIC 10B":["ARABIC","Arabic Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. ARABIC 10B is for language mentees.",""],"ARABIC 51":["ARABIC","Introduction to the Koran","An introduction to understanding the Koran and its significance to Muslim life, culture, and history. An overview of scholarly traditions related to the Koran, and its critics. Close readings of the Koran in English translation.",""],"ARABIC 199":["ARABIC","Independent Study","Research paper required.",""],"ARMN 1A":["ARMN","Elementary Armenian","Written and conversational Armenian for students with no knowledge of the language. Students learn the Armenian alphabet, read and comprehend simple texts, and carry basic conversation. Emphasis on reading and comprehension, grammar rules, and basic composition.","Placement into ARMN 1A."],"ARMN 1B":["ARMN","Elementary Armenian","Continues development of the fundamentals of Armenian, including comprehension, reading of simple texts, basic conversation, and writing with a fair degree of grammatical correctness. Students learn basic reading, writing, and sentence structure through lectures, games, and assignments.","ARMN 1A. ARMN 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARMN 1B is also accepted."],"ARMN 1C":["ARMN","Elementary Armenian","Focus on building grammatical knowledge of the Armenian language and developing skills in reading, writing, listening, and speaking. Includes a strong emphasis on expanding vocabulary and developing oral proficiency in higher\/formal registers.","ARMN 1B. ARMN 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARMN 1C is also accepted."],"ARMN 2A":["ARMN","Intermediate Armenian","Designed to develop students' ability to communicate further orally and in writing in Armenian (Western or Eastern) by consolidating knowledge of grammar, increasing vocabulary, and developing reading, comprehension, and writing.","ARMN 1C. ARMN 1C with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARMN 2A is also accepted."],"ARMN 2B":["ARMN","Intermediate Armenian","Designed to develop students' ability to communicate further orally and in writing in Armenian (Western or Eastern) by consolidating knowledge of grammar, increasing vocabulary, and developing reading, comprehension, and writing.","ARMN 2A. ARMN 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARMN 2B is also accepted."],"ARMN 2C":["ARMN","Intermediate Armenian","Designed to develop students' ability to communicate further orally and in writing in Armenian (Western or Eastern) by consolidating knowledge of grammar, increasing vocabulary, and developing reading, comprehension, and writing.","ARMN 2B. ARMN 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into ARMN 2C is also accepted."],"ART 1A":["ART","Art in Context: History, Theory, and Practice","First in a three-quarter foundation sequence introducing students to a broad range of contemporary art, media, and practices in relation to their 20th-century cultural and historical antecedents. ART 1A deals specifically with contemporary painting and photography.",""],"ART 1B":["ART","Art in Context: History, Theory, and Practice","Deals with film\/video\/performance. Concerned with the development of modern\/contemporary film, video, and performance, with a focus on experimental and avant-garde production from the early twentieth-century to today.",""],"ART 1C":["ART","Art in Context: History, Theory, and Practice","Third in a three-quarter foundation sequence introducing students to a broad range of contemporary art, media, and practice in relation to their 20th-century cultural and historical antecedents. Deals specifically with space and cyberspace.",""],"ART 8":["ART","Changing Creativity","Explores creativity as a changing concept in historical and contemporary terms from the perspectives of producers, consumers, and institutions. Encompasses international perspectives and the role of new technologies in considering creativity as a resource for innovation and social change.",""],"ART 9A":["ART","Visual Culture: Media, Art, and Technology","Examines creative activities in all spheres of life, including the \"artistic\" impulses that dwell in the individual. Culture is addressed in broad terms of the many institutions and cultural forces that shape everyday activities of listening, seeing, doing.",""],"ART 9B":["ART","Visual Culture: A Culture Divided","Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, controversies flourished in the mainstream media over purportedly obscene art, anti-American writing, and moral decay, among other issues. Examines these new conflicts as they manifest themselves in public life and everyday experience.",""],"ART 9C":["ART","Visual Culture: Thematic Investigations","Considers a broad range of concerns and questions raised by various acts of appropriation in contemporary art and visual culture, such as originality, authenticity, authorship, translation, audience and aesthetics, temporal dimensions of a work, and context.",""],"ART 11A":["ART","Topics in History of Contemporary Art","Surveys mid-19th and 20th-century art production, from modernity through post-modernity, in a historical and cultural context.","ART 9A"],"ART 12A":["ART","Art, Design, and Electronic Culture","Introduction to historical and theoretical foundations of digital media art, tracing how information technologies seeded growth of new expressive medium. Considers how today's pervasive digital culture evolved through interdisciplinary collaborations between artists, engineers, scientists, scholars.",""],"ART 12B":["ART","Cultural History of the Anthropocene","A survey of the ongoing interactions between technological and social change through the 19th century and 20th century, with special attention to the history of computing, changing arts and cultural practices, and the idea of the Anthropocene.",""],"ART 12C":["ART","Intelligences of Arts","Introduces contemporary neuroscience and new approaches to cognition - embodied, enactive, extended, situated, distributed. Reviews the history of related  ethological, biological, psychological, technological, and philosophical traditions. Considers arts and cultural practices from these and other perspectives, and considers case studies.",""],"ART 20A":["ART","Basic Drawing I","Encourages an investigation of the premises and limits of drawing, primarily, but not inevitably, as a two-dimensional medium. Includes slide presentations and discussions of the historical uses of a wide range of drawing. Materials fee.",""],"ART 30A":["ART","Basic Painting I","Examination of the fundamental components of painting: color, form, space, surface, scale, and content. Studio work, slide presentations, and critiques of student work. Materials fee.",""],"ART 30B":["ART","Basic Painting II","Further examinations of the essential qualities of painting: color, form, space, surface, scale, and content. Studio work, slide presentations, and critiques of student work. Materials fee.","ART 30A"],"ART 40":["ART","Beginning Sculpture","The practice of sculpture in the contemporary arts; inclusion of spatial interventions, site-specific and environmental design, appropriation of found materials; techniques in cutting joining, and assembly of wood, metals, and plastics. May include casting, welding, and ceramics. Materials fee.",""],"ART 50A":["ART","Matter and Media     ","A project-based introduction to tools and approaches for creating and sharing digital media content within internet-mediated social environments, with a particular emphasis on art-making and personal expression. Includes an overview of basic user experience and interaction design principles.",""],"ART 50B":["ART","Interaction and Experience","An overview of digital video and audio production for the Web, emphasizing art-making and personal expression. Includes digital media aesthetics and conceptual design, basic audio and video recording, and fundamentals of desktop video, audio, and Web authoring software applications.","ART 50A"],"ART 51":["ART","Basic Ceramic Sculpture","Exploration of use of clay as sculptural basis with an emphasis on development of an idea and its relation to contemporary and experimental art practice. Hand-building, glazing, finishing processes, and use of other structural materials. Materials fee.",""],"ART 65A":["ART","Foundations in Media Design","Provides an overview of media design in the digital age, covering principles of design for different media (2D, time-based, interactive); history of relationship between art and design; and practice in working with different design approaches. Materials fee.",""],"ART 65B":["ART","Foundations in Internet Art and Design","Introduction to creating art for the Internet, covering history and structure of networks; key types of net-based interactivity; basics of Web design and scripting.  Materials fee.","ART 65A. Recommended: ART 11B."],"ART 65C":["ART","Gizmology and Kinetics","Provides students with basic skills in materials, construction and design applicable to making machines, musical instruments and things with moving parts enabling work in kinetic sculpture, custom interactive systems, Mechatronics, Robotics, and Maker\/DIY culture. Materials fee.",""],"ART 71A":["ART","Introduction to Photography I","Introduction to technical underpinnings emphasizing photography as a contemporary art practice. Topics include 35mm non-automatic camera operation, exposure and lighting, black and white printing, introduction to digital photography, discussion of critical and historical issues. Materials fee.",""],"ART 71B":["ART","Introduction to Photography II","Techniques covered include medium and large format cameras, digital photography, studio lighting, digital and analog color printing, mural room. Conceptual direction is developed through critiques, critical readings, discussions, slide lectures.  Materials fee.","ART 71A"],"ART 81A":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Production I","Introduction to three production stages of video making.  Study of the narrative structure of cinema and acquisition of video production skills in camera, lighting, sound, and editing. Production work, readings, and screenings outside of class are assigned. Materials fee.",""],"ART 81B":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Production II","Focuses on video stage production, technical skills including camera operation, stage lighting, sound recording, and construction of basic scenic elements.  Emphasis is placed on the function and responsibilities of the production crew and proper working and safety procedures. Materials fee.","ART 81A"],"ART 91":["ART","Basic Performance Art","Exploration of objects, gesture, action, text, image, and media to create narrative or non-narrative works. Elements of theory and history of performance art are discussed to illustrate techniques and styles to understand, identify, and articulate artistic vision and voice.",""],"ART 95":["ART","Special Topics in Basic Media","Basic instruction in media or disciplines not otherwise represented in the regular curriculum. Topics vary according to the instructor.",""],"ART 100":["ART","Special Topics in Art","Materials fee, topic dependent.","ART 9A. Lower-division writing strongly recommended."],"ART 101W":["ART","Artists as Writers","Contemporary art practice involves text, as final form or an integral element. Many contemporary artists consider writing as essential to their practice. Covers historical and contemporary uses of text and image as well as artists' writing.","ART 9A and ART 11A. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"ART 106A":["ART","Programming for Artists","Programming as a means to create interactive artworks with an emphasis on the integration of video, sound, text, and stills. Topics include basic concepts in programming, understanding the limits of code, working with video and audio files, and interface design. Materials fee.","ART 65A. Recommended: ART 11B."],"ART 106C":["ART","Design for Print","Investigates the use of print for communication as an artist. Covers the fundamentals of print design and output using digital media.  Materials fee.","ART 65A. Recommended: ART 11B."],"ART 108":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Project I","Students learn to conceive, develop, and produce original video works building directly upon previously learned skills. Use of video stage and post-production editing facilities. Lectures on video\/film subjects, production strategies, readings, screening, field trips, and group critiques. Materials fee.","ART 81A and ART 81B"],"ART 109":["ART","Performance and the Camera","Surveys the development of contemporary artists who use performance strategies in the making of videos and films. Students analyze the artist's conceptual approach to performative gestures, actions, and landscapes created for their video or film art.","ART 1B or ART 81A or ART 91 or ART 128"],"ART 110A":["ART","Mechatronic Art I","Introduces the practice and theory of analog electronics, emphasizing the design and development of simple interactive systems and the integration of such systems into real-world contexts of performance, installation, sculpture, and automated artifacts. Materials fee.",""],"ART 110C":["ART","Mechatronic Art III","As the capstone to the Mechatronic Art series, students develop major projects utilizing electronics, microcontrollers, sensors, and electromechanical devices, in a methodical and supervised context, with technical, design, and aesthetic advice and critique. Materials fee.","ART 110A"],"ART 113":["ART","How to be Clever with Stuff","How to Be Clever with Stuff is an introduction to the skilled embodied practices of arts and crafts, working with hand tools, wood, and steel. Class includes technical lecture\/demos, short technical assignments, a self-initiated final project, and design drawing. Materials fee.",""],"ART 115W":["ART","Writing Nearby","Art writing is increasingly an area of scholarship unto itself as well as a discursive arm of contemporary art practice. Investigates the politics of art writing as well as training students in its various writing practices.","ART 9A and ART 11A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ART 121A":["ART","Afro-Futurism I","First of a two-part course on the futuristic artistic vision of Black film, video, and cyberspace. Deals with critical analyses of the Black image in Western Art history, and its association to contemporary Hip Hop culture, art, and music.","ART 9A. Satisfactory completion of upper-division writing strongly recommended."],"ART 121B":["ART","Afro-Futurism II","Second of a two-part course on the futuristic artistic visions of Black film, video, and cyberspace. Deals with modern techno-culture, digital activism, and designing technology based on African aesthetic principles of contemporary Hip Hop International Culture.","ART 9A. Satisfactory completion of upper-division writing strongly recommended."],"ART 123B":["ART","Issues in Media, Violence, and Fear","Violence has been instrumental in story-telling throughout history in art, literature, religion, and entertainment. Continuing presence of media violence provoked debates among parents, politicians, media producers, and academics. Examines history, theory, aesthetics, economics, and politics of violent representation.","ART 9A. Satisfactory completion of the Upper-Division Writing requirement is recommended."],"ART 125":["ART","Issues in Photography","Rigorous investigation of photographic practices and critical writings, the relationship of photography to the construction and maintenance of cultural institutions, the circulation of photographic ideas in society, and photography and technology.","ART 1A or ART 71A or ART 71B or ART 152A or ART 152B or ART 152C or ART 152D or ART 152E or ART 190B. Recommended: Satisfactory completion of the Upper-Division Writing requirement."],"ART 126B":["ART","Issues in Techno-Arts","Addresses issues related to artmaking practices that emerge in tandem with new technologies. Topics include sociopolitical contexts of techno-art; utopic\/dystopic framings; key moments in the history of techno-arts.","ART 9A. Recommended: ART 11B."],"ART 127B":["ART","Issues in Experimental Film History","A critical study of experimental film\/video art genres and production techniques considering their narrative, structural, iconographic, and cultural aspects. Hollywood narrative, Nouvelle Vague, American Independent, and Video Art compared in terms of production innovation, design, and conceptual content.  Materials fee.","ART 9A"],"ART 128":["ART","Issues in New Genres","Investigates issues in post-studio practices, including concepts of time, relational aesthetics, site-specificity, institutional critique, and the post-medium condition.","ART 9A. Recommended: Satisfactory completion of the Upper-Division Writing requirement."],"ART 130A":["ART","Projects in New Technologies","Working with media such as electronic still cameras, desktop publishing, faxes, satellites, virtual reality, digitized imaging. Cultural issues pertinent to the emergence of new technology (e.g., ethical concerns, social impact, copyright laws, nontraditional approaches to distribution, cyberpunk, global markets).","ART 65A. Recommended: ART 11B and ART 106A."],"ART 132A":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Pre-Production","Examines the preparatory and planning stages of video production, including script writing, story boarding, location scouting, script breakdown, and budgeting. Projects may encompass one or more of these stages which will be explored through readings, discussions, and demonstrations. Materials fee.","ART 81A and ART 81B"],"ART 132B":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Post-Production","Examines procedures and techniques utilized in video production after principal shooting is completed, including effects processing, composting, sound design, and DVD authoring. Projects focus on these processes, and are explored through readings, discussions, and demonstrations. Materials fee.","ART 81A and ART 81B"],"ART 133":["ART","The Graphic Novel    ","An intensive workshop during which students will create a short graphic novel, taking the process all the way from concept to publication. Course work will focus on understanding how narrative emerges from a combination of visual and textual elements.","ART 65A. Strongly recommended: ART 106C."],"ART 138":["ART","Place Making and Public Art","How do art interventions in public spaces inform our definition of \"place\" and develop culturally informed audiences? Students will engage in class projects and group investigations that question the traditional and institutional conceptual boundaries of exhibition\/distribution.","ART 40 and ART 9A"],"ART 141":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Advanced Project I","Incorporating narrative structures in a multi-screen context. Students design and produce an active space in which activities will move from one screen to another. Materials fee.","ART 81A and ART 81B"],"ART 144":["ART","Artist Books as Objects","Are artist books still relevant in the contemporary creative community? Focusing on intellectual content and raw physicality, students will explore this question and image\/text relationships by creating handmade one-of-a-kind or edition book projects utilizing various mechanical reproduction techniques.","(ART 20A or ART 30A or ART 40 or ART 51 or ART 65A or ART 71A or ART 81A or ART 91) and ART 9A"],"ART 150":["ART","Advanced Studio Topics--Painting","Provides an intensive and specialized working environment. Thematic issues and material strategies will be explored. Materials fee.","ART 30B"],"ART 150C":["ART","Advanced Drawing     ","Advanced studio problems in visual exploration. Students pursue individual solutions to self-defined and presubscribed projects. Techniques\/materials are individual choice. Continual analysis of the personal process.","ART 20A"],"ART 150F":["ART","Advanced Figure Drawing","Students develop technical skills in rendering the figure. Live model sessions and an introduction to anatomy. Investigates use of the figure in contemporary art. Materials fee.","ART 20A"],"ART 150G":["ART","Advanced Figure Painting","Students develop technical skills in painting the figure. Live model sessions and projects that investigate the use of the figure in contemporary art.","ART 150F"],"ART 151":["ART","Advanced Studio Topics--Sculpture","Provides an intensive and specialized working environment. Thematic issues and material strategies will be explored.  Materials fee.","ART 40"],"ART 152A":["ART","Advanced Studio Topics: Photography","Focused investigation of a range of issues in photographic practice, with an emphasis on developing individual student projects, refining critical thinking, and conceptual framing. Technical topics covered as required. Readings, lectures, critiques, labs. Materials fee.","ART 71B"],"ART 152B":["ART","Documentary Photography","Documentary practice is examined through the realization of photo-based projects. Thematic focus of student's choosing will be refined through lectures, discussion, technical demonstrations, field trips, labs, and individual meetings.  Materials fee.","ART 71B"],"ART 152C":["ART","The Public Image","Strategies for artistic intervention in the public circulation of images are examined alongside the role images play in constructing public identity. Individual or collaborative student projects will be directed around course themes. Materials fee.","ART 71B"],"ART 152F":["ART","Seminar Production Component","Photographic and\/or inter-media production course tied to a specific Issues course (for example, Issues in Photography, Issues in Feminism, Issues in New Genres). Critiques, labs, field trips, discussion, demonstrations. Materials fee.","ART 71B"],"ART 153":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Advanced Project II","Directed to the production of individual or collaborative videotapes, using studio, portable camera, editing facilities, and sound and computer elements. Emphasis will be on individually initiated projects. Readings and screenings are assigned. Materials fee.","ART 81A and ART 81B"],"ART 154":["ART","Advanced Studio Topics: Performance","An intensive investigation of the practice of performance art, with an emphasis on the development of individual projects, and the refinement of various technical skills, as well as audiences, spaces, and cultural connections.","ART 91 or ART 109 or ART 128"],"ART 156":["ART","Advanced Studio Topics: Ceramic Sculpture","Discussion of ideas, techniques, and personal control of form. Clay body, fabrication, glazing, and firing.  Emphasis on development of personal direction. Materials fee.","ART 51"],"ART 166A":["ART","Digital Filmmaking Web Series","Original video projects produced in collaborative teams combining advanced video students with students from other areas, including Dance, Drama, and Music. Shoots may be carried out on the video stage as well as field locations. Materials fee.","ART 81A and ART 81B"],"ART 170":["ART","Advanced Projects","Students working in different mediums will focus on ambitious research, planning, development, and experimentation, leading to a single work or focused series that is large in scope. The project will be exhibited and documented at the end of the quarter.  Materials fee.","ART 150 or ART 150C or ART 151 or ART 152A or ART 152B or ART 152C or ART 152D or ART 152E or ART 152F or ART 153 or ART 166A or ART 190 or ART 190B or ART 190C"],"ART 189":["ART","Critical Aesthetics  ","Surveys critical thought that has influenced twentieth-century art production, preparing the student to engage contemporary art with a critical eye, specifically addressing aesthetic and political debates of the historical avant-garde, the neo-avant garde, and postmodern culture.","ART 1A and ART 1B and ART 1C"],"ART 190":["ART","Senior Project and Critique","Directed-study critique class in preparation for final project and life after graduation; documentation and portfolio preparation for graduate school. Investigation of exhibition spaces and funding opportunities, participation in artists' communities outside the university, and artists' rights issues.",""],"ART 190B":["ART","Senior Projects and Critique in Photography","Directed group study focused on production of photographic projects of significant scope and ambition. Emphasis on preparation for continued study and\/or practice in photography in advanced settings beyond the undergraduate university experience. Materials fee.","ART 1A and ART 1B and ART 1C and ART 71A and ART 71B"],"ART 197":["ART","Art Internship","Under faculty supervision, students participate directly in a variety of art institution settings, including museums, galleries, and nonprofit organizations.",""],"ART 198":["ART","Honors Exhibition","Preparation, installation, and participation in the annual honors exhibition. Materials fee.",""],"ART 199":["ART","Independent Study","Individual study or directed creative projects as arranged with faculty member. Materials fee.",""],"ART 210":["ART","First-Year Graduate Seminar","Introductory theory class to contemporary art: intellectual history, theoretical antecedents, and current critical concerns.",""],"ART 215":["ART","Graduate Seminar Topics","In-depth discussion of contemporary art production in relation to a variety of theoretical, cultural, and historical topics. Material is determined by the given instructor's current research interest. Topics vary.",""],"ART 220":["ART","Graduate Seminar: Issues in Contemporary Art","Classroom interaction with artists, curators, critics, lecturers from fields outside of the arts or from cross-disciplines. Includes recommended readings, discussions, panel participation, writing assignments.","ART 210"],"ART 230":["ART","Graduate Group Critique","Focus on studio production. Students are expected to help foster and develop an environment in which serious and sophisticated peer critique can take place.",""],"ART 236":["ART","Graduate Topics in Studio Production","Graduate group study of a specific medium or art practice (e.g., painting; video, installation, photography, sculpture\/3D, performance, digital media, public art, sound art; film). Includes consideration of technical, theoretical, historical, and\/or formal issues.",""],"ART 240":["ART","Interdisciplinary Projects","Intensive faculty-led discussion of in-progress graduate studio projects--can be discipline driven or working across fields in a rigorous interdisciplinary studio environment where students meet with the professor both individually and in small groups.",""],"ART 250":["ART","Directed Reading and Research","Independent study with a supervising faculty member to direct academic research, develop bibliographies, and discuss assigned readings.",""],"ART 251":["ART","Special Topics Seminar","Directed reading and\/or study group on a given research topic. Agreed-upon meeting structure may be flexible in order to accommodate off-campus field trips and travel.",""],"ART 255":["ART","Graduate Interdisciplinary and Collaborative Projects","For graduate students working collaboratively across the School of the Arts or cross-university. May be team taught with one of the faculty members based in the Department of Art.",""],"ART 261":["ART","Graduate Thesis Writing Seminar","Seminar for writing as a component of the thesis. Different models of writing, text, and spoken word will be discussed. Required second year.","ART 210 and ART 215 and ART 220"],"ART 262":["ART","Graduate Thesis Independent Study","Tutorials and directed study in thesis writing, research and\/or studio production with thesis committee chair and\/or thesis committee members to be taken during final quarters of study.","ART 210 and ART 215 and ART 220"],"ART 263":["ART","Graduate Thesis, Exhibition Critique","Group critique required for matriculating M.F.A. students during the quarter in which their thesis exhibitions are scheduled. Public presentation\/lecture on student's work required.","ART 210 and ART 215 and ART 220 and ART 230 and ART 240 and ART 261 and ART 262"],"ART 264":["ART","Critical and Curatorial Thesis Exhibition","Intensive tutorial geared toward execution of professional gallery exhibition, which is one half of the degree requirement for the M.F.A. concentration in Critical and Curatorial Studies. Must be taken under direction of Committee Chair.",""],"ART 399":["ART","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Associates working under the active guidance and supervision of a regular rank faculty member responsible for curriculum and instruction at the University.",""],"ART HIS 30":["ART HIS","Latin American Art and Architecture: 1492 to the Present","Charts the history of Latin American art and architecture from the invasion of the Americas in 1492 to the present. It examines the production of visual art in relation to colonization, imperialism, migration, international exchange, and racial formation.",""],"ART HIS 40A":["ART HIS","Ancient Greek and Roman Art, and Architecture","An overview of Greek and Roman art, and related ancient visual cultures. Considers how and why the peoples of antiquity created art and architecture, as well as the significance of these works within their social, religious, and historical contexts.",""],"ART HIS 40B":["ART HIS","Arts of Europe: Medieval and Renaissance","Focuses on the art of the Mediterranean area and Europe between ca. A.D. 350 and 1600. By means of movements and artists, examines the cultural identities of the Christian, Islamic, and Early Modern worlds.",""],"ART HIS 40C":["ART HIS","Early Modern and Modern Art in Europe and America","The visual arts from the seventeenth to the twenty-first centuries. Explores the purposes and meaning of painting, sculpture, and architecture in relation to artists, viewers, and historical events.",""],"ART HIS 42A":["ART HIS","History of Asian Art: Arts of India","Emphasizing Hindu, Buddhist, and Islamic art of greater India (Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka) from proto-historic to modern times. Themes include art as a source of history, commercial and religious pan-Asian connections, nationalism, and modern versus historical identities.",""],"ART HIS 42B":["ART HIS","History of Asian Art: Arts of China","An introduction to the arts and visual culture of China from Neolithic to modern times. Themes includes the representation of power, death and the afterlife, popular culture and elite arts, landscape and women's painting, and concludes with contemporary China.",""],"ART HIS 42C":["ART HIS","History of Asian Art: Arts of Japan","Examines compelling images and objects of spirit and power created in Japan over many centuries. Themes include Buddhist icons, narative illustration, popular prints, architecture, manga, and the avant-garde. Japanese interactions with Korean, Chinese, and European culture are emphasized.",""],"ART HIS 42D":["ART HIS","History of Asian Art: Arts of Islam","Examines past and present Islamic art, spanning 1,500 years and extending from the Americas through Indonesia. Themes include Islam as a globalizing force, the definition of \"Islamic,\" and the competing roles of religion and politics in making art.",""],"ART HIS 42E":["ART HIS","Art and Archaeology of Ancient Persia, Egypt, and Mesopotamia","An introduction to the art and archaeology of ancient Egypt, Mesopotamia, Anatolia, Persia, and the wider Iranian world from the Neolithic to the coming of Islam. Considers wider impact on the ancient and early medieval worlds and their present legacy.",""],"ART HIS 44":["ART HIS","Image Collision: A Multicultural Approach to Images and Their Users","Comparisons between present-day visual culture and pre-modern art to re-evaluate the ways in which one understands the contemporary histories of underrepresented groups in the United States.",""],"ART HIS 55":["ART HIS","Disneyland","From Dole Whips to roller coasters, the focus is on the innovations in industrial automation and manufacturing that made Disneyland's attractions possible. Discusses fandom, guest experiences, operating procedures, technical and design patents, and how rides work.",""],"ART HIS 100":["ART HIS","Studies in Ancient Art   ","Topics in Egyptian, Prehistoric, and Etruscan art of the Mediterranean area treated with specific reference to relevant cultural and historical settings.  Specialized courses in Greek and Roman art are also taught.",""],"ART HIS 103":["ART HIS","Studies in Greek Art","Topics in Greek art, architecture, and topography from the Prehistoric period through the end of the fourth century B.C.E.",""],"ART HIS 107":["ART HIS","Studies in Roman Art","Topics in Hellenistic and Roman art and architecture; stresses historical and political background.",""],"ART HIS 110":["ART HIS","Studies in Medieval Art","Specialized topics in Medieval art and architecture in Europe, the Mediterranean area, and the Near East between the fourth and fifteenth centuries.  Examples:  the Art of the Migration Period, Medieval City.",""],"ART HIS 111B":["ART HIS","Byzantine Art: 650-1450","Studies in the development of the art and architecture of the Byzantine Empire between ca. 650 and 1450.",""],"ART HIS 114":["ART HIS","Studies in Western Medieval Art","Selected topics on the development of art and architecture in Western Europe between ca. 700 and 1400. Examples: Romanesque painting, Gothic architecture.",""],"ART HIS 120":["ART HIS","Studies in Renaissance and Baroque Art","Selected topics on the art and architecture of Europe between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries. Examples: Renaissance and Baroque prints, Bruegel to Rubens.",""],"ART HIS 121":["ART HIS","Studies in Southern Renaissance Art","Selected topics determined by individual faculty members exploring historical developments and individual artists of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries in Italy and Spain. Examples: Renaissance Venice, Age of Michelangelo.",""],"ART HIS 125":["ART HIS","Studies in Southern Baroque Art","Selected topics determined by individual faculty members exploring historical developments and individual artists of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in Italy and Spain. Example: Rome in the seventeenth century.",""],"ART HIS 128":["ART HIS","Studies in Northern Baroque Art","Selected topics determined by individual faculty members exploring historical developments and individual artists of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in Northern Europe. Example: the Age of Rembrandt.",""],"ART HIS 134C":["ART HIS","Modern European Art: From Impressionism to the Fauves","History of European painting and urban transformation from 1851 to 1907, when Paris stood strong as the unquestioned cultural capital of the nineteenth century.",""],"ART HIS 134D":["ART HIS","Modern European Art: From Cubism to Surrealism","History of European painting, sculpture, and design from 1907 to 1940, when Paris and painting lost their dominance as other cultural centers and other media claimed renewed importance.",""],"ART HIS 134E":["ART HIS","Topics in Modern European Art","Selected topics within the period 1643 to 1940.",""],"ART HIS 140A":["ART HIS","History of Contemporary Art","Selected topics exploring historical developments of contemporary art from 1945 to the present. Examples: American Art 1945-1989, European Art 1945-1989, Art After 1989. Works of art are studied as cultural, social, and political practices.",""],"ART HIS 140B":["ART HIS","Topics in Contemporary Art","Selected topics exploring artistic movements, artists, and\/or issues in contemporary art from 1945 to the present. Examples include Junk Art, Countercultures, Art and Politics Now. Works of art are studied as cultural, social, and political practices.",""],"ART HIS 145A":["ART HIS","Studies in Modern Architecture","Architecture and related design practices from the late eighteenth century through 1945 are studied in relation to social, aesthetic, technological, and political questions.",""],"ART HIS 145B":["ART HIS","Studies in Architecture after 1945","Architecture and related design practices from 1945 through present are studied in relation to social, aesthetic, technological, and political questions.",""],"ART HIS 145C":["ART HIS","Topics in the History of Modern and Contemporary Architecture","Varying topics from the late eighteenth century to the present. Architecture and related design practices are studied in relation to social, aesthetic, technological, and political questions.",""],"ART HIS 150":["ART HIS","Studies in Asian Art","Topics include visual studies in China, Japan, Korea and India.",""],"ART HIS 151B":["ART HIS","Later Imperial China","Investigates the uses, subjects, styles, and social contexts of art made in the later Imperial dynasties, whether court art, religious art, women's painting, scholar painting, or art for the market.",""],"ART HIS 151C":["ART HIS","Modern China","Examines the evolution and media of Chinese art and visual culture in the context of modern China's sweeping historical, social, and political changes.",""],"ART HIS 155A":["ART HIS","Ancient India","Examines the visual and religious history of the region defined as \"India\" today, but necessarily encompassing modern Bangladesh and Pakistan.  Culminates with the supposed Golden Age of the Gupta empire and its far-reaching legacies.",""],"ART HIS 155B":["ART HIS","Medieval India","Begins with the Gupta period's aesthetic legacies in South Asia's architecture, sculpture, and painting. Explores the dispersal of Islam throughout South Asia, including the Muslim communities of southern India.",""],"ART HIS 155C":["ART HIS","Modern India","Examines the imperial patronage of the Mughal emperors, covering their territorial holdings extending from Afghanistan through western Bangladesh.  Continues with the \"aftermath\" of the Mughal empire and the rise of British commercialism and colonialism.",""],"ART HIS 155D":["ART HIS","Topics in the Art and Architecture of India","Studies in selected areas of Art and Architecture of India. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ART HIS 156":["ART HIS","Art and Globalization, Modern","Study of modern art as a cause and expression of increasing contacts between cultures. Focusing on regions in Asia and the Americas, adoption of European oil painting, indigenous art movements, and national capital architecture are explored.",""],"ART HIS 162C":["ART HIS","Contemporary Japan","Study of various media of Japanese art from the time of war defeat in 1945 until the present. Topics include artists' responses to the nuclear bomb, the aesthetics of the \"economic miracle,\" avant-garde groups, manga, and innovations in architecture.",""],"ART HIS 163":["ART HIS","Asian American Art, Contemporary","Study of the Asian American experience in contemporary art and visual culture. Art by Asian Americans of diverse backgrounds as well as the history of visualization of Asian identities in American art\/visual culture.",""],"ART HIS 164A":["ART HIS","Modern African American Art","Investigates the history of modern African American art; emphasis on the politics of representation. Examines art in a variety of media from material culture and textiles to painting and photography. Issues of migration, nationalism, gender, sexuality, and hybridity are discussed.",""],"ART HIS 164B":["ART HIS","Contemporary African American Art","Investigates the history of contemporary African American art; emphasis on the politics of representation. Explores art in a variety of media: painting, sculpture, photography, installation, and new media. Cultural politics, appropriation, identity, gender, sexuality, hybridity and civil rights issues discussed.",""],"ART HIS 164D":["ART HIS","African American Women in Art","Examines depictions of and by African American women in art and popular culture through a variety of media including textiles, painting, sculpture, photography, and installation. Focuses on African American women's experiences, perspectives, and strategies for contemporary representation.",""],"ART HIS 164E":["ART HIS","African Americans and Photography","Explores depictions of and by African Americans through photography. Examines the history of photography in relationship to African American culture through a variety of media from early daguerreotype processes to digital imagery.",""],"ART HIS 165A":["ART HIS","Early American Art","An examination of American visual culture from 1620 to 1860 from the era of European exploration and colonization of the New World to the beginning of the Civil War.",""],"ART HIS 165B":["ART HIS","Nineteenth Century American Art","An exploration of American visual culture from 1860 to 1900, including paintings, sculpture, and photographs produced during the Civil War and during the decades of prosperity that followed.",""],"ART HIS 165C":["ART HIS","Modern American Art","Focusing on the period from 1900 until 1965, this course considers the emergence and institutionalization of modern art in the United States.",""],"ART HIS 165D":["ART HIS","Topics in American Art","Varying topics within the period 1620 to 1970. Works of art are studied in their cultural, social, and political contexts.",""],"ART HIS 167":["ART HIS","Latin American Art History","Historical periods vary with each offering and may range from pre-Columbian societies, through the colonial era, to developments in modern and contemporary art.",""],"ART HIS 180":["ART HIS","Topics in the Criticism of Art","Selected topics discussed on the theoretical and\/or practical dimensions of art historical criticism.",""],"ART HIS 181":["ART HIS","Topics in Museum Studies","Addresses the historical and contemporary function of the museum as an instructional device.  The function of exhibitions in the public sphere, and the roles of curators, educators, and the public are analyzed.",""],"ART HIS 185":["ART HIS","Topics in Visual Studies","Interdisciplinary topics on the cultural analysis of visual artifacts and practices.",""],"ART HIS 190W":["ART HIS","Art History Methods","Theory and practice of art history, with an emphasis on formal and social models of analyzing and writing about art.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ART HIS 196":["ART HIS","Ethics, Law, and Art","Addresses a broad range of ethical and legal issues pertaining to art, ownership, looting and theft, museum policies, and cultural heritage.",""],"ART HIS 198":["ART HIS","Advanced Seminar: Topics in Art History","Discussion and report-oriented seminar with emphasis on reading, writing, and thinking about problems in art history. Examples: Gothic Cathedral, Portraiture East and West.","Recommended: ART HIS 190W."],"ART HIS 199":["ART HIS","Independent Study in Art History","Supervised, but independent reading or research on art historical topics.",""],"ART HIS 255A":["ART HIS","Ancient India","Examines the visual and religious history of the region defined as \"India\" today, but necessarily encompassing modern Bangladesh and Pakistan. Culminates with the supposed Golden Age of the Gupta empire and its far-reaching legacies.",""],"ART HIS 255B":["ART HIS","Medieval India","Begins with the Gupta period's aesthetic legacies in South Asia's architecture, sculpture, and painting. Explores the dispersal of Islam throughout South Asia, including the Muslim communities of southern India.",""],"ART HIS 296":["ART HIS","Ethics, Law, and Art","Addresses a broad range of ethical and legal issues pertaining to art, ownership, looting and theft, museum policies, and cultural heritage.","Background in Art History or Legal Studies."],"ART HIS 298":["ART HIS","Master's Seminar: Topics in Art History","Studies in selected areas of Art History. Examples include Gothic Cathedral, Portraiture East and West.",""],"ART HIS 299":["ART HIS","Master's Thesis Research","Research and writing of the Master's thesis.",""],"ART HIS 399":["ART HIS","University Teaching","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"ARTS 1":["ARTS","ArtsCore","An introduction to the arts in general, and to the arts at UCI. Concentration on (1) the interdisciplinary nature of the arts, and (2) the content of particular arts disciplines.",""],"ARTS 75":["ARTS","Digital Media: Exhibition","A discussion and critique course in all media arts. Includes a review of key media arts concepts and the preparation of an end-of-quarter exhibition.","Proposal submission required."],"ARTS H81":["ARTS","Improvisation and Modes of Research \/ Creative Expression","Through immersion, readings, analysis, and observation, students are trained to recognize, build, and engage a set of \"improvisatory\" cognitive skills in order to enhance artistic creation, the generation of language, data analysis, and the application of the scientific method.",""],"ARTS 199":["ARTS","Independent Study","Individual study or directed projects as arranged with faculty member.",""],"ASIANAM 50":["ASIANAM","Asian American Histories","Examines and compares diverse experiences of major Asian American groups since the mid-nineteenth century. Topics include origins of emigration; the formation and transformation of community; gender and family life; changing roles of Asian Americans in American society. Formerly ASIANAM 60A.",""],"ASIANAM 51":["ASIANAM","The U","Explores the historical and contemporary transnational linkages between the U.S. and regions in Asia and their resultant flows of people, goods, and ideas. Attention given to the role of militarism and processes of globalization, and the histories of cultural contact\/conflict.",""],"ASIANAM 52":["ASIANAM","Asian American Communities","Examines the renewal of Asian immigration following World War II. Explores contemporary Asian American populations and communities in the U.S., and the impact of contemporary Asian immigration on the U.S. political economy and social order.",""],"ASIANAM 53":["ASIANAM","Asian Americans and Race ","Analyzes the Asian American experience in comparative perspective, which includes comparisons of different ethnic and racial groups, and across gender and class. Possible topics include labor, economy, politics, migration, nation, popular culture, gender, family, sexuality, and multiraciality.",""],"ASIANAM 54":["ASIANAM","Asian American Stories","Examines stories from Asian American communities through literary texts and other media. Selected themes may include the following: dislocation\/relocation, finding\/inventing a usable past, poetics\/politics in language, identities\/ethnicities.",""],"ASIANAM 55":["ASIANAM","Asian Americans and the Media","Investigates popular representations of and cultural productions by Asian Pacific Americans and Asians in the Americas from the late-nineteenth century to the present. Cultural media may include political cartoons, film\/television, popular music, visual art, blogs\/Web sites, and performance.",""],"ASIANAM 100W":["ASIANAM","Research Methodologies for Asian American Studies","Explores various research methodologies for Asian American Studies combining theoretical knowledge with field research. Goals: conduct field research about immigrants and refugees from Asia. Topics vary: migration and labor, assimilation and cultural preservation, cultural expressions in the diaspora.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ASIANAM 110":["ASIANAM","Asian American Writers","Literary analysis of Asian American writers' representations of issues of identity, class, history among others. Variety of literary forms--novel, poem, drama, essay--included in a study of a variety of Asian American ethnic groups.",""],"ASIANAM 111":["ASIANAM","Asian American History","Introduction to important themes in the history of people of Asian ancestry in the United States from the nineteenth century to the present.",""],"ASIANAM 112":["ASIANAM","Asian American Art History","Investigation of Asian American experience expressed by art and visual culture throughout the twentieth century. Art by Asian Americans of diverse backgrounds as well as the history of cultural visualization of Asian identities in American art\/visual culture.",""],"ASIANAM 114":["ASIANAM","Asian American Film and Video","Topics include histories of Asian American film and video, including documentaries, experimental, short subjects, feature-length independent film, and other forms of cinematic expression. Explores issues of identity (national, racial, gendered, among others).",""],"ASIANAM 116":["ASIANAM","Asian Americans and Popular Culture","Focuses on Asian Americans' relationship to popular culture as both producers and consumers. Topics include consumer cultures and subcultures, cyberspace and public space, popular music, indy comics and other print media.",""],"ASIANAM 130":["ASIANAM","Undocumented Immigrant Experiences","Examines the experiences of undocumented immigrants and the policies that structure their educational, economic, social, and political participation.",""],"ASIANAM 132":["ASIANAM","Comparative Minority Politics","Examines the political experiences of Blacks, Latinos, and Asian Americans in the United States from roughly 1950 to the present. Focuses on how each group has pursued political empowerment via both conventional political channels and social movements.",""],"ASIANAM 137":["ASIANAM","Asian American Labor","Explores history of Asian Americans and work from the nineteenth century to the present. Areas of study include migration, colonialism, family, social organization, and work culture.",""],"ASIANAM 138":["ASIANAM","Race and Urban Space","Examines how ethnic and racial processes shape and structure interactions in urban settings, such as schools, housing, employment, and public spaces, with attention to the international impact of globalization and postcolonial forces.",""],"ASIANAM 142":["ASIANAM","Arabs and Muslims in the US","Offers a critical academic study of Islam in America, focusing on the core tenets of belief, the diversity of practices, and historical transformations that have taken place since the arrival of Muslims in the United States.",""],"ASIANAM 143":["ASIANAM","Religious Traditions of Asian Americans","Studies the religious traditions of Asian Americans, focusing on the transplantation of religious institutions, establishment of sacred spaces, celebration of religious holidays, socialization of children, as well as birth, marriage, gender relations, death, family.",""],"ASIANAM 144":["ASIANAM","The Politics of Protest","Examines the Civil Rights, Black Power, and women's movements in relationship to the Asian American movement. Uses social movement theories to illuminate the cases, and the cases to critique and revise the theories.",""],"ASIANAM 150":["ASIANAM","Special Topics in Asian American Studies","Analyzes a variety of themes in Asian American Studies--identity, history, culture--from various interdisciplinary perspectives in humanities, arts, social sciences.",""],"ASIANAM 151C":["ASIANAM","Korean American Studies","Explores the factors that have distinctly shaped the Korean American experience, including patterns of racial domination, the profile of immigrant flow, immigrant roles in the urban political economy, politics in Korea, and the role of the church.",""],"ASIANAM 151D":["ASIANAM","Vietnamese American Studies","Studies the resettlement of Vietnamese in the United States following their exodus from Southeast Asia. Topics include the Vietnam War, the 1975 evacuation, boat and land refugees, the shaping of Vietnamese communities, and Vietnamese American literature.",""],"ASIANAM 151E":["ASIANAM","Japanese American Studies","Studies the settlement of Japanese in Hawaii and the continental United States since the late 19th century. Topics include sugar plantations, development of rural Japanese America, World War II internment, post-War community development, and persistence of Japanese American identity.",""],"ASIANAM 151F":["ASIANAM","South Asian American Studies","Examines and compares the experiences of South Asian immigrants in the U.S. over time. Looks at the economic, political, and social positions of the immigrants, with special emphasis on religious changes and the changes in the second and later generations.",""],"ASIANAM 151H":["ASIANAM","Southeast Asian American Studies","Analyzes experiences of refugees and immigrants from Southeast Asia, which may include those from Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and the Philippines. Examines political and economic factors for their exodus and how they reconstruct their identities, histories, and communities.",""],"ASIANAM 151J":["ASIANAM","Chinese American Studies","Analyzes the experiences of Chinese in the United States. Immigration, Chinese exclusion, racial and gender identity. Historical overview and contemporary issues covered.",""],"ASIANAM 151K":["ASIANAM","Filipina\/Filipino American Studies","Explores the experience of Filipina\/Filipino Americans from the era of Spanish colonization of the Philippines to present-day community formations in the United States, with special emphasis on the 20th century. Topics include colonialism, nation, migration, gender, and culture.",""],"ASIANAM 162":["ASIANAM","Asian American Women","Examines the representations and experiences of Asian American women from diverse perspectives. Explores the commonalities and differences among various groups of Asian American women, with particular focus on history, culture, values, and family roles.",""],"ASIANAM 164":["ASIANAM","Topics in Intersectionality","Topics include intersectional analysis of various themes related to ethnicity, gender, sexuality, and race within Asian American communities.",""],"ASIANAM 166":["ASIANAM","Race and Citizenship","Explores historical and contemporary patterns of racialization in relation to citizenship. Topics may include racial categorization, immigration, and comparative racialization.",""],"ASIANAM 168":["ASIANAM","Politics of Animal Rights","Examines animal rights\/welfare movement's efforts to transform moral, practical, and legal standing of nonhuman animals in contemporary U.S. Explores intersection of racism, sexism, and speciesism informed by theories of race and ethnicity, including Asian American Studies.",""],"ASIANAM 199":["ASIANAM","Independent Study","Directed reading and research in consultation with a faculty member. Substantial written work required.",""],"ASIANAM 200A":["ASIANAM","Theory and Methods in Asian American Studies","Introduction to the intersection of the social sciences, humanities, and other fields that constitute the theory and methodology of Asian American Studies. Focuses on the interventions and contestations within Asian American Studies that have transformed the discipline in recent years.",""],"ASIANAM 200B":["ASIANAM","Contemporary Issues in Asian American Studies","Examines the interrelations between history, theory, and race in the aftermath of the twentieth-century decolonial movements, offering an account of race through postcolonial and postnationalist approaches in comparative contexts. Considers the interventions made by transnational feminist and racialized queer critiques.",""],"ASIANAM 200C":["ASIANAM","Leadership and Social Change in Asian American Communities","Introduces students to models of community-engaged learning and leadership that are central to the field of Asian American studies. Designed to expose students to histories and models of organizing in Asian American communities and forms of community-based research.",""],"ASIANAM 200D":["ASIANAM","Introduction to Asian American Studies Research","Introduces students to research topics and methods within the field of Asian American studies. Aims to expose students to core and affiliated faculty to help them identify possible advisors for master's research projects or members of doctoral committees.",""],"ASIANAM 201":["ASIANAM","Graduate Topics in Asian American Studies","Seminars on various topics in Asian American Studies.",""],"ASIANAM 250":["ASIANAM","Advanced Topics in Asian American Studies","Seminar covering various areas of research within Asian American Studies as an interdisciplinary field. Recommended for advanced graduate students.",""],"ASIANAM 290":["ASIANAM","Directed Research","Directed graduate study\/research in Asian American Studies.",""],"ASIANAM 291":["ASIANAM","Directed Reading","Readings focused on specialized topics in consultation with, and with the consent of, a faculty member.",""],"ASIANAM 399":["ASIANAM","University Teaching","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"BIOCHEM 200A":["BIOCHEM","Research in Biological Chemistry","Individual research under the supervision of a professor.",""],"BIOCHEM 200B":["BIOCHEM","Research in Biological Chemistry","Individual research under the supervision of a professor.",""],"BIOCHEM 200C":["BIOCHEM","Research in Biological Chemistry","Individual research under the supervision of a professor.",""],"BIOCHEM 200R":["BIOCHEM","Research in Biological Chemistry for First-Year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in the Department of Biological Chemistry for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"BIOCHEM 202A":["BIOCHEM","Laboratory Seminar Series","Study within a laboratory group including research and journal presentations.",""],"BIOCHEM 202B":["BIOCHEM"," Laboratory Seminar Series","Study within a laboratory group including research and journal presentations.",""],"BIOCHEM 202C":["BIOCHEM","Laboratory Seminar Series","Study within a laboratory group including research and journal presentations.",""],"BIOCHEM 207":["BIOCHEM","Current Topics in Cancer Genomics","Literature-based discussion of molecular principles in genetics and functional genomics, with focus on cancer and stem cell biology.",""],"BIOCHEM 210A":["BIOCHEM","Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology","Covers the following topics from a biomedical perspective: protein and nucleic acid biochemistry, carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids, purines and pyrimidines, genome structure, molecular mechanisms of development, and signal transduction.",""],"BIOCHEM 215":["BIOCHEM","Mouse Developmental Genetics","Introduction to using the mouse in contemporary biomedical research. The biology and development of the laboratory mouse, methods for manipulation of the mouse genome and embryos, and examples of application of these methods to understand mammalian development and homeostasis.",""],"BIOCHEM 217":["BIOCHEM","Human Evolution and Behavior","Covers theories and empirical research concerning the evolutionary origins of human behaviors and their variations. An interdisciplinary course emphasizing both evolutionary psychology (e.g., mating strategies, kinship, and parenting) and molecular evolution (i.e., evolution of genes for various behaviors).",""],"BIOCHEM 225":["BIOCHEM","Epigenetics in Health and Disease ","Focuses on the role of chromatin\/nuclear structure organization (histone and DNA modification, chromatin remodeling, higher order chromatin structure and nuclear organization) on gene regulation, DNA replication and repair, relevant to development, metabolism, learning and memory, and human disease.","MOL BIO 203 or MOL BIO 204 or NEURBIO 206"],"BIOCHEM 291":["BIOCHEM","Research Seminar","Student research-based colloquium covering current topics in gene organization and expression, cell cycle and differentiation, DNA repair, checkpoint control, and the physical, chemical, and biological properties of macromolecules. Students are encouraged to read critically and analyze recent literature.",""],"BIOCHEM 292A":["BIOCHEM","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"BIOCHEM 292B":["BIOCHEM","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"BIOCHEM 292C":["BIOCHEM","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"BIO SCI 1A":["BIO SCI","Life Sciences","Designed to introduce nonmajors to the basic concepts of modern biology. Discussion of evolutionary biology, ecology, molecular biology, and genetics.",""],"BIO SCI 2A":["BIO SCI","Freshman Seminar","Weekly meetings consisting of presentations by faculty, professional staff, and Peer Academic Advisors provide information about the School of Biological Sciences, campus resources, learning skills, and special programs\/opportunities.",""],"BIO SCI 2B":["BIO SCI","Freshman Seminar     ","Faculty presentations and readings focused on the structure, function, opportunities, and current issues in the biological sciences.",""],"BIO SCI 2C":["BIO SCI","Solutions in Science","Students will be introduced to approaches that can be used to solve scientific problems. These methods can be utilized in introductory to advanced classes and will allow students to become independent thinkers.",""],"BIO SCI 2D":["BIO SCI","EASE Seminar","Seminars designed to help students achieve success in STEM courses. Provides collaborative learning environment facilitated by undergraduate mentor. Students develop critical thinking and study skills. Also receive guidance to campus resources that assist acclimation to University.",""],"BIO SCI 2E":["BIO SCI","Topics and Careers in Ecology and Evolution","Introduces students to topics, research opportunities, and career options in ecology and evolutionary biology.",""],"BIO SCI 3A":["BIO SCI","Career Decision Making","An introductory course designed to facilitate the career decision-making process. Decision-making processes, values, and standardized tests of aptitudes, interests, and values are utilized with non-test data in appraising biological sciences career options.",""],"BIO SCI 3B":["BIO SCI","Non-Health Sciences Career Exploration","A survey course designed to assist students in exploring non-health science career options. Lectures by professionals in various fields.",""],"BIO SCI 4B":["BIO SCI","Introduction to Field Biology","Field excursions to introduce students to local field sites and resources.",""],"BIO SCI 6":["BIO SCI","Tropical Biology: Race to Save the Tropics","Population growth combines with tropical resource consumption by industrialized nations to cause high rates of deforestation, pollution, habitat fragmentation, and extinction of species. Discusses tropical biomes, their population, community,  ecosystem processes, and possible means of conservation of biodiversity.",""],"BIO SCI 9A":["BIO SCI","Nutrition Science","An introduction to nutrition science, integrating concepts from biology, biochemistry, microbiology, physiology, and psychology to explain the interaction between nutrients and the human body. Biological basis of nutrient standards is analyzed. Effects of nutrition, behavior, exercises on health\/disease.",""],"BIO SCI 9B":["BIO SCI","Biology and Chemistry of Food and Cooking ","The kitchen is used as a laboratory to introduce fundamental principles of biology, chemistry, and physics. A molecular\/cellular analysis of cooking, including concepts such as protein structure, browning reactions, colloids, emulsions, carbohydrate metabolism, and development of flavor\/texture through biochemical transformations.",""],"BIO SCI 9E":["BIO SCI","Horticulture Science ","Scientific principles of horticulture at the UCI Arboretum. Taxonomy, plant life history strategies; experiments with seed dormancy; morphological adaptations for specialized sexual and clonal reproduction; basics of plant propagation and ecological restoration.  Materials fee.",""],"BIO SCI 9J":["BIO SCI","Biology of Oriental Medicine","With lectures, demonstrations, and hands-on learning, the theory and practice of herbal medicine, acupuncture, qigong, and manipulative therapies are explained in Western biomedical terms. The latest basic and clinical research advances in each area are also described.",""],"BIO SCI 9K":["BIO SCI","Global Change Biology","Field trips and lectures that address ways in which humans are altering the global environment, with consequences for the ecology of animals, plants, and microbes.",""],"BIO SCI 10":["BIO SCI","The Biology of Human Diseases","Introduction to concepts of diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of major human infectious diseases. Covers some aspects of epidemiology. Scope and impact of infectious diseases in the present and past experiences in controlling infectious disease. Reviews biology of human organ systems.",""],"BIO SCI 11":["BIO SCI","Topics in Biological Sciences","Studies in selected areas of biological sciences.",""],"BIO SCI 12":["BIO SCI","Molecular Basis of Human Disease","Describes the cause and treatment of human diseases at the cutting edge of modern molecular understanding for non-science majors, including history, interviews, and stories.",""],"BIO SCI 14":["BIO SCI","California Teach 1: Introduction to Science and Mathematics Teaching","First in a series for students interested in becoming middle or high school teachers of mathematics or science. Students gain an understanding of effective, research-based teaching strategies. Includes supervised field experience in a K-12 classroom.",""],"BIO SCI 17":["BIO SCI","Evolutionary Psychology","Introductory overview of the field of evolutionary psychology. Surveys topics operating at the interface of social sciences, i.e. behavioral psychology and evolutionary biology, while developing select aspects of the history of this developing field.",""],"BIO SCI 23":["BIO SCI","Sustainable Landscaping: Design and Practices","Through lectures and hands-on work, students learn how to design habitats around dwellings, within cities, and in rural environments. These include traditional\/sustainable landscaping, restoration, stormwater\/wastewater treatment, xeriscaping, and low impact development design. Sustainable landscape plant materials emphasized.",""],"BIO SCI 25":["BIO SCI","Biology of Cancer","Biological, clinical, and psychosocial nature of cancer through the perspectives of medical researchers, biologists, physicians, and health educators. For students of all majors, designed so that each can increase personal awareness of the biology of cancer.",""],"BIO SCI 35":["BIO SCI","The Brain and Behavior","Introduction to how the brain works. Biological processes underlying perception, movement, sleep-wake cycles, motivation, language, learning, and memory. Changes in the brain associated with sex differences, drug use, aging, seasons, and time of day. Fundamental properties of the nervous system.",""],"BIO SCI 36":["BIO SCI","Drugs and the Brain","Introduction to the actions of drugs on the brain. How studying drug action helps reveal normal functions of neurons. How drugs can correct neural disorders or disrupt neural function. Biological issues related to drug abuse, drug addiction, and drug seeking.",""],"BIO SCI 37":["BIO SCI","Brain Dysfunction and Repair ","Introduction to the disruptions in brain function that underlie disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinsonism, schizophrenia, and depression, and the basis for drug therapies. The brain's ability to repair itself after damage and the pros and cons of that repair.",""],"BIO SCI 38":["BIO SCI","Mind, Memory, Amnesia, and the Brain","Introduction to neural mechanisms underlying learning and memory. Emphasis on molecular changes that mediate memory as well as structures involved in different forms of memory. Additionally, examines the biology of memory phenomena, from extraordinary memory to false memory to amnesia.",""],"BIO SCI 41":["BIO SCI","Aspects of Mood Disorder","There are significant differences in response to psychiatric illness across cultures. Delves into the neuroscience underlying mood disorder, investigating current pharmacological treatments and sociocultural influences on treatment outcomes.",""],"BIO SCI 43":["BIO SCI","Media on the Mind","Surveys an ever-increasing collection of research, suggesting modern technology and social media are changing in the way our brains function.",""],"BIO SCI 44":["BIO SCI","Stem Cells and Brain Repair","Students introduced to the field of regenerative neurobiology. Both basic stem cell discoveries and their potential clinical application to brain disorders examined. Discussion of opportunities, challenges, and implications of this research.",""],"BIO SCI 45":["BIO SCI","AIDS Fundamentals","Considers the biological and sociological bases of the AIDS epidemic. Topics include the history of AIDS, current medical knowledge, transmission, risk reduction, and how the community can respond.",""],"BIO SCI 46":["BIO SCI","Discussion and Literature Research in AIDS","Students carry out two activities: (1) leading discussions about HIV\/AIDS (predominantly regarding sociological and personal reactions) among students taking the AIDS Fundamentals course and (2) literature research about biomedical aspects of AIDS.","BIO SCI 45 or PUBHLTH 80"],"BIO SCI 47":["BIO SCI","Stress","Investigates stress at a psychological, physiological, and molecular level, and provides a current overview of the field of stress research.",""],"BIO SCI 48":["BIO SCI","The Mind-Body Connection in the Neuroscience of Well-Being","Explores research that provides insight into how exercise, diet, sleep, contemplative practices such as mindfulness and meditation, and contemporary psychological therapeutic approaches alter brain function in beneficial ways to promote positive mental health well-being.",""],"BIO SCI 55":["BIO SCI","Introduction to Ecology","Principles of ecology; application to populations, communities, ecosystems, and humans.",""],"BIO SCI 56":["BIO SCI","Life Sciencing from Aristotle to Venter","History of biology from Aristotle through to the scientific revolutions precipitated by Darwin, geneticists, molecular biologists, and now genomics. Introduces the practices and achievements of biological research to both beginning biology students and non-majors.",""],"BIO SCI 75":["BIO SCI","Human Development: Conception to Birth","Processes leading to the birth of a healthy child and the avoidance of birth defects. Male and female reproductive systems, hormonal control of egg-sperm formations, sexual intercourse, contraception, venereal diseases, fertilization, cell division, embryonic development, fetal physiology.",""],"BIO SCI H90":["BIO SCI","The Idiom and Practice of Science","The importance of biological sciences in our world is discussed. Topics may include brain and behavior, health and disease, genetics and society, and conservation biology. Primary goal is to encourage students to understand better the world in which they live.",""],"BIO SCI 92":["BIO SCI","Curriculum","Initiation, planning, and coordination of student-run courses.",""],"BIO SCI 93":["BIO SCI","From DNA to Organisms","Cell biology, biochemistry, genetics, and the biology of organ systems. Covers concepts of building blocks (nucleotides, amino acids, and cells) and of information flow (DNA to proteins, receptors to nuclei, the blood to distant organs, and DNA to offspring).",""],"BIO SCI H93":["BIO SCI","Honors From DNA to Organisms","Cell biology, biochemistry, genetics, and the biology or organ systems. Covers concepts of building blocks (nucleotides, amino acids, and cells) and of information flow (DNA to proteins, receptors to nuclei, the blood to distant organs, and DNA to offspring).",""],"BIO SCI 94":["BIO SCI","From Organisms to Ecosystems","Patterns of diversity, ecology, and evolutionary biology. Emphasis is on the Tree of Life and how its members are distributed and interact.","BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"BIO SCI H94":["BIO SCI","Honors From Organisms to Ecosystems","Patterns of diversity, ecology, and evolutionary biology. Emphasis is on the Tree of Life and how its members are distributed and interact.","BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"BIO SCI 97":["BIO SCI","Genetics","Introduction to genetics. Basic features of replication and expression of DNA, cell division, and gene transmission. Recombination and mutation in diploid organisms.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI H97":["BIO SCI","Honors Genetics","Introduction to genetics. Basic features of replication and expression of DNA, cell division, and gene transmission. Recombination and mutation in diploid organisms.",""],"BIO SCI 98":["BIO SCI","Biochemistry","Structure and properties of proteins; major biochemical pathways and mechanisms for their control.","r corequisite: BIO SCI 97 or BIO SCI H97 and CHEM 51B"],"BIO SCI 99":["BIO SCI","Molecular Biology","Biochemistry and replication of nucleic acids; molecular genetics; protein biosynthesis; genetic code; regulation of expression of genetic information; biochemical evolution.","BIO SCI 98"],"BIO SCI 100":["BIO SCI","Scientific Writing","Designed to give an overview of the basic aspects of scientific writing relevant to reporting research in the Biological Sciences.","r corequisite: BIO SCI 99 or BIO SCI 190. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI 101":["BIO SCI","California Teach 2: Middle School Science and Mathematics Teaching","Second in a series for students interested in becoming middle or high school teachers of mathematics or science. Students gain an understanding of effective, research-based teaching strategies for grades 6-8. Includes supervised field experience in a middle school classroom.","PHY SCI 5"],"BIO SCI D103":["BIO SCI","Cell Biology","Analysis of the basic structure and function of animal cells, with an emphasis on the regulation of cellular processes. The basic features of membranes, cellular compartmentalization, protein trafficking, vesicular transport, cytoskeleton, adhesion, signal transduction, and cell cycle are covered.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI D104":["BIO SCI","Developmental Biology","Cellular and molecular analysis of how a fertilized egg develops into an organism consisting of complex structures such as the eye, arms, and brain. Emphasis is on the key concepts of developmental processes underlying pattern formation, growth, and regeneration.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI D105":["BIO SCI","Cell, Developmental, and Molecular Biology of Plants ","Emphasizes the special features of plant cells and plant development as compared to animals. Two central topics: plants' ability to fuel our planet through photosynthesis, and the interactions of plants with microorganisms in making nitrogen available to other life forms.","BIO SCI 97 or BIO SCI H97"],"BIO SCI E106":["BIO SCI","Processes in Ecology and Evolution","An in-depth study of the mechanisms that drive evolution and ecology including: natural selection, mutation, genetic drift, speciation, extinction, life history patterns, population dynamics, ecosystem and community structure, predator-prey and host pathogen interactions, and social behavior.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI E106L":["BIO SCI","Habitats and Organisms","Introduces students to local habitats and organisms through required field trips and applies ecological and evolutionary principles from BIO SCI E106. Students also explore related literature.","(BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and BIO SCI E106. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI E107":["BIO SCI","Seminar in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Invited speakers, graduate students, and faculty present current research in ecology and evolutionary biology.",""],"BIO SCI 108":["BIO SCI","Research Methods","Explores tools of inquiry for developing and implementing science research projects.  Students undertake independent projects requiring data collection, analysis, and modeling, and the organization and presentation of results.  Additional topics include ethical issues and role of scientific literature.","BIO SCI 14 or PHY SCI 5"],"BIO SCI E109":["BIO SCI","Human Physiology","Functional features of the major organ systems in the human body. Emphasis on homeostasis and the interactions of organ systems in health and disease. (Discussion of behavior and brain function deferred to BIO SCI N110.).","(BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93) and CHEM 1C"],"BIO SCI N110":["BIO SCI","Neurobiology and Behavior","Consideration of the evolution of behavior, including ethological and psychological aspects and analysis of neuroanatomical, neurochemical, neurophysiological, and neuroendocrine systems underlying basic behavioral processes.","r corequisite: BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI D111L":["BIO SCI","Developmental and Cell Biology Laboratory","Covers the division of cells, isolate cellular organelles (chloroplasts, mitochondria, nuclei), and follows changes in cells undergoing programmed cell death. Development is demonstrated in experiments showing cooperation of individual cells in forming a multicellular organism.  Materials fee.","r corequisite: (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and (BIO SCI D103 or BIO SCI D104 or BIO SCI D105)"],"BIO SCI E112L":["BIO SCI","Physiology Laboratory","Laboratory with a focus on the whole organism and its organ systems. Examples of structure-function relationships are drawn from both animal and human physiology. Cellular and molecular aspects are introduced as required.  Materials fee.","(BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and (BIO SCI E109 or (BME 120 and BME 121)). "],"BIO SCI D113":["BIO SCI","Genetics Majors Seminar","Genetics majors attend a weekly seminar to discuss current research techniques and career opportunities in the field. Students have the opportunity to present their own independent research.",""],"BIO SCI N113L":["BIO SCI","Neurobiology Laboratory","An in-depth exploration into biology and physiology of the nervous system. Labs include neuroanatomy, electrophysiology, pharmacology, behavior, experimental design, EEG, and scientific writing.  Materials fee.","r corequisite: (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and (BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A)"],"BIO SCI D114":["BIO SCI","Developmental and Cell Biology Majors Seminar","Developmental and Cell Biology majors attend a weekly seminar to discuss current research techniques and career opportunities in the field. Students have the opportunity to present their own independent research.",""],"BIO SCI M114":["BIO SCI","Advanced Biochemistry","Physical-chemical properties of macromolecules. Structure-function relationships in nucleic acids, protein, carbohydrates, and lipids. Integration and regulation of metabolism. Biochemistry of organs and biochemistry of diseases.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI M114L":["BIO SCI","Biochemistry Laboratory","Properties of enzymes and the culture and isolation of mutants of microorganisms. Materials fee.","BIO SCI 99 and (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108)"],"BIO SCI E115L":["BIO SCI","Evolution Laboratory","Students perform experiments which illustrate important concepts in evolutionary biology such as natural selection, random genetic drift, inbreeding, age-specific selection, sexual selection, and phylogenetic reconstruction. Materials fee.","(BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and BIO SCI E106. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI M115":["BIO SCI","Allied Health Microbiology","Introductory microbiology lecture and laboratory with an emphasis on microbial growth control and the relationship between microbes and human health.","(BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93) and CHEM 1C. CHEM 1C with a grade of C- or better"],"BIO SCI N115A":["BIO SCI","Advanced Neurobiology I","In-depth coverage of neurobiology, ranging from molecular neurobiology to functional brain imaging. Discussion of molecular, cellular, and developmental neurobiology.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI N115B":["BIO SCI","Advanced Neurobiology II ","In-depth coverage of neurobiology, ranging from molecular neurobiology to functional brain imaging.","BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI M116":["BIO SCI","Advanced Molecular Biology","Mechanisms of gene expression; special emphasis on regulatory events that occur in Eukaryotic organisms other than initiation of transcription. Chromatin structure and rearrangement, RNA polymerases, cis- and trans-acting elements, RNA processing, transport and stability, protein synthesis, trafficking, and turnover.","BIO SCI 99 and (BIO SCI M114L or BIO SCI M116L)"],"BIO SCI M116L":["BIO SCI","Molecular Biology Laboratory","Students perform experiments which illustrate the chemical and biological properties of nucleic acids. Emphasis is placed on recent techniques in recombinant DNA technology including gene isolation and characterization.  Materials fee.","BIO SCI 99 and (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108)"],"BIO SCI E117A":["BIO SCI","Exercise Sciences Seminar","Students are introduced to fundamental concepts and topics in exercise sciences with an emphasis on developing innovative approaches for exploring the biological response to physical activity\/inactivity. Interactive course with robust discussion amongst faculty and students.","(BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120) and BIO SCI E112L and BIO SCI E183"],"BIO SCI E117B":["BIO SCI","Exercise Sciences Seminar","Students are introduced to fundamental concepts and topics in exercise sciences with an emphasis on developing innovative approaches for exploring the biological response to physical activity\/inactivity. Interactive course with robust discussion amongst faculty and students.","(BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120) and BIO SCI E112L and BIO SCI E183"],"BIO SCI E117C":["BIO SCI","Exercise Sciences Seminar","Students are introduced to fundamental concepts and topics in exercise sciences with an emphasis on developing innovative approaches for exploring the biological response to physical activity\/inactivity. Interactive course with robust discussion amongst faculty and students.","(BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120) and BIO SCI E112L and BIO SCI E183"],"BIO SCI N117":["BIO SCI","Introduction to Neuroscience Clinical Trials","Provides an overview of the science of clinical development of treatments for neurological disease and injury.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E118":["BIO SCI","Ecosystem Ecology","A mechanistic perspective on ecosystem processes. Covers ecosystem development, element cycling, and interactions with plants and microbes. The role of ecosystems in environmental change is also addressed.","BIO SCI E106 or EARTHSS 51 or EARTHSS 60A or CHEM 51C"],"BIO SCI M118L":["BIO SCI","Experimental Microbiology Laboratory","Introductory general microbiology designed for preprofessional biology majors. Includes microscopy, cultivation of bacteria, morphological and biochemical characterization of bacteria, microbial metabolism, growth and genetics, microorganisms and human disease, and interactions of microorganisms with the environment.  Materials fee.","BIO SCI 99 and (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108)"],"BIO SCI N118":["BIO SCI","Clinical Psychophysiology","Psychophysiology investigates the relationships between physiological processes and psychological phenomena. Technologies examined include reaction times, heart rate variability, EEGs, ERPs, magnetoencephalography, and eye tracking. Applications include diagnosis, the longitudinal assessment, and the identification of individuals at risk of disease onset.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A or PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A"],"BIO SCI E119":["BIO SCI","Selfish DNA","Focuses on the genetics and evolution of selfish DNA, and introduces necessary background knowledge from molecular biology, cytogenetics, and bioinformatics.","BIO SCI 94 or BIO SCI 97 or BIO SCI H94 or BIO SCI H97"],"BIO SCI M119":["BIO SCI","Advanced Topics in Immunology","Literature-based, interactive discussions focused on review of seminal historic and recent immunology literature. Student responsibilities include reading, critical evaluation, and discussion of manuscripts.","BIO SCI M121"],"BIO SCI N119":["BIO SCI","History of Neuroscience","An overview of the conceptual and technical foundations of contemporary neuroscience from ancient times to the present. The subjects include synapses, neurons, brain organization, sensory, motor and regulatory systems, learning and memory, human brain function and dysfunction.","BIO SCI 35 or BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A or PSY BEH 115D or (PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C)"],"BIO SCI E120":["BIO SCI","Marine Biology       ","Examines the biotic and abiotic factors influencing the physiology, distribution, abundances, interactions, and evolution of marine organisms and the roles of those organisms in mediating ecosystem services and functions. A field trip is required. Materials fee.","BIO SCI 94 or BIO SCI H94"],"BIO SCI N120A":["BIO SCI","Human Biology I","Provides an in-depth look at cutting-edge topics in physiology and epidemiology as they relate to global issues of ethics, anthropology, and socioeconomics, providing the student with an understanding of human health beyond basic biological function.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI N120B":["BIO SCI","Human Biology II","Provides an in-depth look at cutting-edge topics in physiology and epidemiology as they relate to global issues of ethics, anthropology, and socioeconomics, providing the student with an understanding of human health beyond basic biological function.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI N120C":["BIO SCI","Human Biology III","Provides an in-depth look at cutting-edge topics in physiology and epidemiology as they relate to global issues of ethics, anthropology, and socioeconomics, providing the student with an understanding of human health beyond basic biological function.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI M121":["BIO SCI","Immunology with Hematology","Antibodies, antigens, antigen-antibody reactions, cells and tissues of lymphoreticular and hematopoietic systems, and individual and collective components of cell-mediated and humoral immune response.","BIO SCI 98"],"BIO SCI M121L":["BIO SCI","Advanced Immunology Laboratory","Emphasis is placed on learning modern techniques in immunology such as ELISAs, western blotting, and immunofluorescent staining assays.   Materials fee.","(BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and BIO SCI M116L and BIO SCI M121"],"BIO SCI N121":["BIO SCI","Drug Addiction","Provides a comprehensive overview of topics in the addiction field, including drug pharmacology, models\/approaches to investigate addiction, brain circuits, genetics, epigenetics, and the cellular and molecular biology of drug addiction.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E122":["BIO SCI","Physiology and Pathology of the Kidney","Examines the structure, function, and pathology of the kidney. Topics include anatomy of the kidney, cellular function, urine formation, and disease states of the kidney.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120"],"BIO SCI M122":["BIO SCI","General Microbiology","Comparative metabolism of small molecules and cell structure and relationship to microbial classification. Macromolecule synthesis and regulation, sporulation, cell division, growth, and effect of antibiotics.","BIO SCI 98"],"BIO SCI N122":["BIO SCI","Scientific Argumentation and Critical Thinking","Explicitly teaches argument structure, deductive logic, inductive logic, and common fallacies in the biology context. Students identify assumptions and fallacies in faulty arguments and data figures and learn to compose sound arguments.","BIO SCI 93. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI M123":["BIO SCI","Introduction to Computational Biology","The use of theories and methods based on computer science, mathematics, and physics in molecular biology and biochemistry. Basics in biomolecular modeling. Analysis of sequence and structural data of biomolecules. Analysis of biomolecular functions.","MATH 2D or MATH 3A or STATS 7 or STATS 8"],"BIO SCI N123L":["BIO SCI","Human Neuroimaging Lab","Hands-on laboratory course in human neuroimaging, with particular emphasis on using MRI to understand brain function and how it changes over the course of the lifespan and with disease.","BIO SCI 93 and (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI D124":["BIO SCI","Biology of Integrative Medecine","Presentation of biological principles and the latest clinical and basic research on complementary and alternative therapies (e.g., mind-body medicine, energy medicine, herbal medicine, acupuncture, manipulative therapies) and their integration with Western medicine. Lectures supplemented by demonstrations and hands-on learning sessions.",""],"BIO SCI E124":["BIO SCI","Infectious Disease Dynamics","Learn how the immune system interacts with infectious diseases, in particular with viral infections. An introduction to basic virology and immunology, it concentrates on the way in which the immune system is critical to the prevention of infections.",""],"BIO SCI M124A":["BIO SCI","Virology","Replication of viruses in populations, animals, and the host cell. The effects of viral infection on populations, individuals, and specific molecular effects on the target cell. Role of viral infections in cancer and degenerative diseases.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI M124B":["BIO SCI","Viral Pathogenesis and Immunity","The mechanisms of viral pathogenesis and of host resistance to viruses are explored in detail. HIV-1 and Influenza-A are used as examples. In each case, viral replication, cytopathic effects, immune response, and viral evasion are discussed.","BIO SCI M121 or BIO SCI M124A. Recommended: BIO SCI M122."],"BIO SCI M125":["BIO SCI","Molecular Biology of Cancer","Molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis. Consideration of transformation by DNA tumor viruses, RNA tumor viruses, and chemical carcinogens.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI M126":["BIO SCI","Learning to Read Primary Literature in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology","An introduction to primary literature focusing on methods to approach, understand, and analyze scientific papers.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E127":["BIO SCI","Physiological Plant Ecology","An examination of the interactions between plants and their environment. Emphasis on the underlying physiological mechanisms of plant function, adaptations and responses to stress, and the basis of the distribution of plants and plant assemblages across the landscape.","EARTHSS 51 or BIO SCI 94 or (EARTHSS 60A and EARTHSS 60C)"],"BIO SCI N127":["BIO SCI","Foundations in Neuroimmunology","The immune system supports normal brain development as well as controls central nervous system (CNS) infections and augments neurodegenerative and neurological diseases. Assesses how the immune system contributes to both host defense and disease.","BIO SCI M121"],"BIO SCI E128":["BIO SCI","Chemical Ecology","An introduction to the unspoken chemical language of nature. Emphasis on interactions between insects, plants, and microbes including plant defense, pollination, and microbial warfare.","r corequisite: BIO SCI 94 and CHEM 51A. CHEM 51A with a grade of C- or better"],"BIO SCI N129":["BIO SCI","The Transparent Brain","Teaches students how to perform new 3-D histology techniques that reveal the complex circuitry of the brain in unprecedented detail. Students work with real brain samples as part of ongoing neuroscience research projects. Materials fee.","BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"BIO SCI D130":["BIO SCI","Photomedicine","Studies the use of optical and engineering-based systems (laser-based) for diagnosis, treating diseases, manipulation of cells and cell function. Physical, optical, and electro-optical principles are explored regarding molecular, cellular, organ, and organism applications.","PHYSICS 3C or PHYSICS 7D"],"BIO SCI M130L":["BIO SCI","Advanced Molecular Lab Techniques","Discovery-driven experimentation in the fields of molecular biology, biochemistry, and cell biology. Also involves other aspects of the lab experience including group discussion of results, scientific paper analysis, and student presentations.   Materials fee.","BIO SCI 100 and (BIO SCI D111L or BIO SCI M114L or BIO SCI M116L or BIO SCI M118L)"],"BIO SCI E131L":["BIO SCI","Image Analysis in Biological Research","Introduction to scientific image analysis including techniques such as high-speed, time-lapse, thermal imaging, and flow visualization. Students make movies using cameras, edit and analyze images using computers, and do a writing project.","(BIO SCI E106 or PHRMSCI 120 or BIO SCI E109) and (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108)"],"BIO SCI M131":["BIO SCI","Innate Immunity, Infection, and Pathogenesis","Role of the innate immune system in health and disease. Molecular pathways of innate immune recognition, expression, and regulation of immune receptors, signal transduction, pathogen sensors, and detection of microbial ligands. Lecture and discussion of primary research articles.","BIO SCI M121 or BIO SCI M122 or BIO SCI M124A or BIO SCI M124B or BIO SCI M143"],"BIO SCI N131":["BIO SCI","Human Neurodegenerative Diseases","Clinical and epidemiological aspects of neurodegenerative diseases causing dementia are reviewed, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and Frontotemporal Dementia. Seminar format includes student presentation and group discussion.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI D132":["BIO SCI","Introduction to Precision Medicine","Introduction to the use of genomic techniques for the study of individual genomes and transcriptomes in healthy and diseased samples. Covers GWAS, current sequencing techniques, cancer genomics, and biomarker discovery.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI D133":["BIO SCI","Advances in Regenerative Medicine","Introduces the rapidly growing field of regenerative medicine. New developments in stem cell research are discussed. Cellular, molecular, and engineering aspects of stem cell-based organ replacement strategies are examined, with emphasis on specific regenerative therapies.","BIO SCI D103 or BIO SCI D104"],"BIO SCI E133":["BIO SCI","Environmental Microbiology","Focuses on non-pathogenic microbes within all habitats (soils, oceans, associated with animals and plants) and their essential functions for ecosystems. Their applied importance for agriculture, bioremediation, energy and food production are also discussed.","BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI M133":["BIO SCI","Structural Biology","Basic principles of magnetic resonance, X-ray crystallography, and CryoEM toward the determination of high-resolution biomolecular structures.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B"],"BIO SCI E134":["BIO SCI","Microbiomes","Students develop an understanding of microbiomes in the context of both their environment and their impact on host physiology. Discussions on how microbiomes interact with the human body.","BIO SCI M122"],"BIO SCI D135":["BIO SCI","Cell Biology of Human Disease","Builds on prior biology courses about the underlying cell biological mechanisms and recent treatment advances of several model diseases. Emphasizes literature searches, reading primary literature, and student group work.","BIO SCI D103"],"BIO SCI D136":["BIO SCI","Human Anatomy","Presents a systems approach to the analysis of human structure. Molecular, cellular, tissue, organ, and organ system levels of structure and organization are integrated throughout.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E136":["BIO SCI","The Physiology of Human Nutrition ","Examines the biochemical basis of energy metabolism, physiological processes in digestion and uptake, and the biochemical transformation of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins in the human body. The emphasis is on expanding the students' understanding of physiology.","BIO SCI 98 and (BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120)"],"BIO SCI D137":["BIO SCI","Eukaryotic and Human Genetics","Structure and function of genes in eukaryotes with emphasis on special problems of genetic studies in humans. Molecular methods of genetic analysis and gene transfer are discussed. Practical applications and ethical and social issues raised by genetic studies are addressed.","BIO SCI 97 or BIO SCI H97"],"BIO SCI M137":["BIO SCI","Microbial Genetics","Basic principles of microbial genetics are presented as lectures for the first half of the course. The second half is devoted to applications of these principles and requires reading review and original research papers and interactions with guest lecturers.","BIO SCI 98"],"BIO SCI D138":["BIO SCI","Critical Thinking in Cell Biology ","Builds on prior biology courses about cell biology, and works to develop a deeper understanding of experimental techniques and interpretation of experiments. A key focus will be the question of how one moves from specific examples to general.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E138":["BIO SCI","Comparative Animal Physiology","Maintenance aspects of physiology: water balance; feeding and digestion; metabolism; respiration and circulation.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120"],"BIO SCI N138":["BIO SCI","Sex Differences in the Brain","Explores the neural bases of sex influences on brain function.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI D139":["BIO SCI","Intercellular Signaling and Disease","Introduces cell-to-cell communication mechanisms, which are fundamentally essential but still not well understood. From well-established to cutting-edge, researches of intercellular communication and how its malfunction leads to diseases are discussed.","BIO SCI D103 or BIO SCI D104"],"BIO SCI E139":["BIO SCI","Animal Locomotion","The physiology, biomechanics, and neuroscience that determines how animals propel themselves and navigate through the world. Considers the principles that govern the walking, running, flying, and swimming of animals, including exercising humans.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120"],"BIO SCI E140L":["BIO SCI","Evolution and the Environment Laboratory","Explores basic topics in ecology and evolutionary biology and applications to agriculture, conservation, environmental issues, and public health. Format involves lab activities and discussion of scientific journal articles, with focus on learning to evaluate scientific evidence.","r corequisite: (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI E142W":["BIO SCI","Writing\/Philosophy of Biology","Philosophy of biology, e.g., scientific method in biology, the structure of evolutionary theory, teleology, ethics, and evolution. Course work includes one 4,000-word and four 1,000-word papers.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI M143":["BIO SCI","Human Parasitology","Introduction to human animal-parasitic diseases including worms and protozoan infections.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI M144":["BIO SCI","Cell Organelles and Membranes","Structure, function, and biogenesis of biological membranes and membrane-bound organelles.","CHEM 51A"],"BIO SCI D145":["BIO SCI","Genomics, Development, and Medicine","Focuses on the applications of genomics and proteomics to problems in genetics, cell, and developmental biology.  Students will gain a comprehensive understanding of the techniques currently used for genomics analysis and how best to apply these tools to solve problems.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E145":["BIO SCI","Animal Coloration and Vision","Physiological and behavioral mechanisms of color production and vision including crypsis, mimicry, aposematism, masquerade, sexual dimorphism, and predator-prey interactions through the lens of signals, receivers, and receptors; color and polarization vision in mate choice and visual adaptations to aquatic environments.","r corequisite: BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI E146":["BIO SCI","Ecosystem Services","Covers what ecosystem services are, how to classify them, what the impacts of land degradation are on ecosystem services, how to quantify and value them, and the importance of mainstreaming ecosystem services in decision-making.","(EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B) or (EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55)"],"BIO SCI E147":["BIO SCI","Behavioral Endocrinology","Comparative examination of the major hormone systems that regulate behavior across animals. Emphasizes the reciprocating nature of hormone-behavior interactions and seeks to understand how natural selection drives the evolution of hormone structure and function.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120"],"BIO SCI N147":["BIO SCI","Hearing and the Brain","An overview of brain mechanisms of hearing, including perception of simple sounds, speech, and music. Begins with sound itself, and looks at processing by the ear, auditory pathways, auditory cortex, and beyond. Also auditory development, learning, and clinical issues.","PSYCH 160A or BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"BIO SCI D148":["BIO SCI","Development and Disease","Development of animal embryos from a fertilized egg to a functioning organism. Topics include reproduction, body-axis formation, growth and differentiation of embryonic cells, and organogenesis, with an emphasis on congenital birth defects and diseases that disrupt these processes.","BIO SCI D103 or BIO SCI D104"],"BIO SCI E150":["BIO SCI","Conservation Biology","Genetic and ecological issues in conservation biology, including effects of human population growth, the value of biodiversity, conservation genetics, demography, metapopulation dynamics, community and ecosystem processes, species invasions, global climate change, and reserve design and management.","BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI N150":["BIO SCI","Brain Dysfunction and Repair","Introduction to the disruptions in brain function that underlie disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinsonism, schizophrenia, and depression, and the basis for drug therapies. The brain's ability to repair itself after damage and the pros and cons of that repair.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI E151":["BIO SCI","Evolutionary and Ecological Principles in Medicine","Explore the dynamics of populations on an ecological, epidemiological, and medical level. Considers the dynamics of competition, predation, and parasitism; the spread and control of infectious diseases; and the in vivo dynamics of viral infections and the immune system.","BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"BIO SCI N151":["BIO SCI","Neurobiology of Aging","Multidisciplinary overview of the functional capacity of the aging brain, its structural changes and the mechanisms underlying function and structure. Emphasis is on successful brain aging and those mechanisms which lead to the development of Alzheimer's disease.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI N152":["BIO SCI","Developmental Neurobiology","The development of the nervous system is discussed with emphasis on the processes that underlie the appearance of complex and highly ordered neural circuits. Topics include neural induction, specification, migration and death; axon growth, and neural circuit formation.","BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"BIO SCI E153":["BIO SCI","Functional and Structural Evolutionary Genomics","Function and organization of genomes analyzed from an evolutionary perspective. Review of some of the most recent experimental approaches in genome analysis and comparative genomics. Relevant software to analyze DNA and expression data is used.","BIO SCI 97 or BIO SCI H97"],"BIO SCI M153":["BIO SCI","Vascular Biology: Blood Vessels in Health and Disease","Every cell in the body is within a half hair's width of a blood vessel. As such, we cannot understand the body, in health or disease, without understanding the vasculature. Mixes lectures and primary literature reviews.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI N153":["BIO SCI","Neuropharmacology","Survey of neurotransmitter systems, focusing on how transmitters are made, how they interact with their receptors, and how drugs can influence these processes to alter neural function and behavior.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI E154":["BIO SCI","Genetics and Human History","Explores topics in human health\/history from an evolutionary perspective, with emphasis on genetics. Topics include the relationship between genetics and human disease as an evolutionary question, and how modern genetic techniques are used to study the history of human populations.","r corequisite: BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI N154":["BIO SCI","Molecular Neurobiology","Provides a fundamental understanding of how the brain works at the molecular level. Topics include nature and actions of molecules that regulate the functioning of the brain and cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E155":["BIO SCI","Physiology in Extreme Environments","An in-depth look at the physiological mechanisms that allow animals, including humans, to be physically active and survive in extreme environments. Physiological responses to high altitude, diving, microgravity, deserts, and extreme cold are examined.","BIO SCI 94 or BIO SCI H94"],"BIO SCI N155":["BIO SCI","Wiring the Developing Brain ","The development of the nervous system is discussed with particular emphasis on the processes that underlie the appearance of complex and highly ordered neural circuits. Basic neurodevelopmental processes are discussed and correlated with normal brain function\/dysfunction.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A or BIO SCI N152"],"BIO SCI N156":["BIO SCI","Molecular Mechanisms of Memory","Current topics focused on understanding the molecular mechanisms that contribute to synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory. Primary literature is used to explore the variety of molecular mechanisms underlying these processes.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI N158":["BIO SCI","Neurobiology of Learning and Memory","How the brain and behavior change as a result of experience, with an emphasis on identifying the neurochemical processes through which memory is stored and the parts of the brain that are involved.","BIO SCI 35 or BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI E160":["BIO SCI","Biology of Birds","A thorough introduction to the biology of birds, covering topics ranging from avian anatomy and physiology to behavior, natural history, ecology, genetics, evolution, systematics, and conservation. Examples from both local and global avifauna.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI E160L":["BIO SCI","Biology of Birds Lab","The companion to Biology of Birds (E160). Consists primarily of field trips to identify local birds and study avian natural history. Students must provide their own transportation to field sites, some with entrance fees. Students must have field binoculars.","(BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108)"],"BIO SCI N160":["BIO SCI","Language and the Brain ","Research analysis on biological bases of human linguistic capacity. Development, focusing on hemispheric specialization, plasticity; localization of specific linguistic functions in adults, with emphasis on study of aphasias; relation of linguistic capacity to general cognitive capacity, considering research on retardation.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9 or PSYCH 9A or PSY BEH 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSY BEH 11B or BIO SCI 35 or BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A)"],"BIO SCI N164":["BIO SCI","Functional Neuroanatomy","How neuroscience uses tools of many disciplines, from imaging to behavior, to develop and test hypotheses about functions of specific parts of the brain. Basic organization of nerve cells\/vertebrate nervous system; methods of visualizing nerve cells; neural connections\/activity patterns.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI N165":["BIO SCI","Brain Disorders and Behavior","Examines the localization of human brain functions and the effects of neurological disorders on psychological functions such as perception, motor control, language, memory, and decision-making.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or ((PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B)) or BIO SCI 35 or BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI E166L":["BIO SCI","Field Biology","Conducting group and independent studies in Southern California ecosystems, this course covers the fundamentals of experimental design, statistical analysis, communicating scientific findings (orally, visually, in writing), and other skills necessary for the scientific investigation of biological processes in the field.  Materials fee.","(BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and BIO SCI E106. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI E168":["BIO SCI","Evolution","An integrative treatment of evolutionary biology that covers evolutionary processes, basic research methods, and the history of life.","BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI D170":["BIO SCI","Applied Human Anatomy","Systems approach to analyze the form and function of the human body with an emphasis on applying anatomical concepts to evaluate clinical cases. The laboratory uses human models and a simulated cadaver dissection for structure. Materials fee.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120. BIO SCI E109 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120 with a grade of C or better"],"BIO SCI N170":["BIO SCI","Clinical Neuroscience","An introduction to the neuroclinical bases of human behavior, including neuropsychological approaches to mental disorders. Also includes case formulations, research articles, therapeutic approaches, and other discussions related to select psychopathology and other neurobehavioral topics.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSYCH 7A or PSCI 11A or PSYCH 9A or BIO SCI 99."],"BIO SCI E172":["BIO SCI","Plant Diversity in a Changing World","Investigation of planet diversity in California and throughout the world, including basic systematic concepts, an introduction to major groups of flowering plants, and the effects of global biological change on plant diversity.","BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI N172":["BIO SCI","Regenerative Neurobiology","Explores the field of regenerative neurobiology. Both basic stem cell discoveries and their potential clinical application to brain disorders examined. Opportunities, challenges, and implications of this research also discussed.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI N173":["BIO SCI","Human  Neuropsychology","A survey of human brain disorders using a clinical case study approach to illustrate fundamental issues in studying brain and behavior. Topics include sensory deficits, attentional neglect, amnesia, cortical organization, clinical psychopathology, and more.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A or PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A"],"BIO SCI N174":["BIO SCI","Principles of Neural Computation","Introduction to the theoretical principles and biological mechanisms underlying how brains acquire, assimilate, store, and retrieve information, and how they compute adaptive responses to external inputs.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI N176":["BIO SCI","Cerebral Cortex: Structure, Function, and Plasticity","The cerebral cortex is highly developed in mammals and is responsible for higher perceptual and cognitive functions. Explores some amazing aspects of cortical structure, function, and plasticity emphasizing primary literature.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI E179":["BIO SCI","Limnology and Freshwater Biology","Biology of freshwater environments: lakes, ponds, rivers, their biota, and the factors which influence distribution of organisms.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI E179L":["BIO SCI","Field Freshwater Ecology","Analytical techniques for common water-quality variables of lakes, streams, and rivers. Benthic fauna, vertebrates and invertebrates, algae, and aquatic plants. Emphasis on field methods with an experimental approach; laboratory exercises. Field trips to marshes, vernal pools, rivers, and streams. Materials fee.","r corequisite: (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108) and BIO SCI E179"],"BIO SCI M180":["BIO SCI","Biotechnological Applications of  Energy and Environmental Research","Covers microbiological and biochemical background related to current biotechnological applications, case studies of biotech-companies, and basic information related to patents and start-up companies. Topics include biofuel, bioremediation, agricultural, and environmental applications.","BIO SCI 98"],"BIO SCI E182":["BIO SCI","Mediterranean Ecosystems: Biodiversity and Conservation","Biodiversity, history of human impacts, and conservation efforts are examined in the five Mediterranean-type ecosystems. Remaining natural habitat, approaches to ecological habitat restoration, control of exotic species, and predicted consequences of global climate change are described. Field trip required.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI N182":["BIO SCI","Vision","Visual perception and the anatomy and physiology of the visual system. Topics include the retina and the visual pathway; visual sensitivity; color vision; spatial vision; motion perception; and the development of the visual system.",""],"BIO SCI E183":["BIO SCI","Exercise Physiology","Focus upon critical topics in the area of exercise biology using the comparative physiological approach. Specifically examine the physiological factors that limit the capacity of an organism to sustain high levels of aerobic metabolism.","BIO SCI 98 and (BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120)"],"BIO SCI E184":["BIO SCI","Ecology and Diversity of Insects","Insects--representing two-thirds of all species--play fundamental roles in human health, agriculture, and natural ecosystems. Topics include insect morphology, development, physiology, taxonomy, ecology, and insects in human affairs. Lecture includes interactive demonstrations and an optional weekend trip.  Materials fee.","BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI E186L":["BIO SCI","Population and Community Ecology Lab","Covers processes specific to groups of the same species (populations) and multiple species (communities). Includes growth, regulation, dynamics, and persistence of populations and community interactions, development, diversity, and macroecology. Lab activities focus on application of population prediction and biodiversity assessment.","BIO SCI E106 and (BIO SCI 100 or BIO SCI 108). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI E187":["BIO SCI","Exercise as Medicine","Explores the link between regular physical activity and health, focusing on mechanistic insights into how regular exercise improves overall health and alters disease trajectories of cancer, type-II diabetes, depression, and other chronic  illnesses.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120"],"BIO SCI E188":["BIO SCI","Introduction to Insect Physiology","Physiology of insects. Insect respiration, digestion, excretion, and neurobiology, including sensory systems and effectors.","BIO SCI E109 or PHRMSCI 120"],"BIO SCI E189":["BIO SCI","Environmental Ethics","History of evolution of environmental ethics in America. Management problems in national parks, wilderness areas, wild and scenic rivers, national forests. Contemporary and historical aspects\/contributors to the field. Mitigation, endangered species, habitat restoration, biodiversity, and environmental activism. Field trips required.",""],"BIO SCI 190":["BIO SCI","Transfer Student Seminar","Weekly meetings consisting of presentations by faculty, professional staff, and New Student Peer Academic Advisors provide information about the School of Biological Sciences, campus resources, and special programs\/opportunities.",""],"BIO SCI D190":["BIO SCI","Topics in Developmental and Cell Biology","Studies in selected areas of developmental and cell biology.","BIO SCI 99"],"BIO SCI E190":["BIO SCI","Topics in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Studies in selected areas of ecology and evolutionary biology.","BIO SCI E106"],"BIO SCI M190":["BIO SCI","Topics in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Studies in selected areas of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry.","BIO SCI 98"],"BIO SCI N190":["BIO SCI","Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior","Studies in selected areas of neurobiology and behavior.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"BIO SCI 191A":["BIO SCI","Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability I","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability. Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum is also required. Seminar utilized to analyze forum presentations.  Prepare bibliography.",""],"BIO SCI 191B":["BIO SCI","Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability II","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability. Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum is also required. Seminar utilized to analyze forum presentations.  Prepare research proposal.","BIO SCI 191A or SOCECOL 186A or EARTHSS 190A"],"BIO SCI 191CW":["BIO SCI","Writing\/Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability III","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability.  Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum also is required.  Seminar utilized to analyze Forum presentations and to prepare senior research paper.  Prepare\/write research paper under direction of faculty member.","BIO SCI 191B or EARTHSS 190B or SOCECOL 186B. BIO SCI 191B or EARTHSS 190B or SOCECOL 186B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"BIO SCI 192":["BIO SCI","Topics in Biological Sciences Tutoring ","Tutoring programs with biological sciences student peers.",""],"BIO SCI 193A":["BIO SCI","Campus as a Living Lab I","Students study sustainability concepts and theories and how they apply to our most pressing environmental, social, and economic challenges. Concurrently, they work on hands-on projects to improve the sustainability of campus operations and systems.",""],"BIO SCI 193B":["BIO SCI","Campus as a Living Lab II","Students study sustainability concepts and theories and how they apply to our most pressing environmental, social, and economic challenges. Concurrently, they work on hands-on projects to improve the sustainability of campus operations and systems.","BIO SCI 193A"],"BIO SCI 193C":["BIO SCI","Campus as a Living Lab III"," Students study sustainability concepts and theories and how they apply to our most pressing environmental, social, and economic challenges. Concurrently, they work on hands-on projects to improve the sustainability of campus operations and systems.","BIO SCI 193B"],"BIO SCI 194S":["BIO SCI","Safety and Ethics for Research","Introduces students to the concepts, techniques, and ethics involved in biological sciences laboratory work.",""],"BIO SCI H195":["BIO SCI","Honors Topics in Biological Sciences","Varied course topics in Biological Sciences designed for students in Honors in Biological Sciences.",""],"BIO SCI 197":["BIO SCI","Special Study in Biological Sciences","Individualized instruction dealing with conceptual or theoretical problems in the biological sciences, rather than technical problems.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI 198":["BIO SCI","Directed Group Studies","Small group experimental laboratory or field work performed under the direction of a faculty member.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI 199":["BIO SCI","Independent Study in Biological Sciences Research","Individual experimental laboratory or field research under a professor's direction. Required for participation in the Excellence in Research Program.","BIO SCI 94"],"BIO SCI 199W":["BIO SCI","Research Writing","Development of research skills such as learning how to plan and conduct research experiments, read and analyze scientific journal articles, and practice presenting the data experiments and journal articles with an emphasis on scientific writing.","r corequisite: BIO SCI 199"],"BIO SCI 285":["BIO SCI","Topics in Allied Health Microbiology","Basic microbiology with emphasis for allied health professions such as nursing. Emphasis is on micro-organisms involved in human health, disease and food safety.","BIO SCI 98"],"BATS 209A":["BATS","Introduction to Medical Statistics","Provides understanding of medical statistics for clinicians and clinical researchers to read and interpret literature.",""],"BATS 209B":["BATS","Introduction to Medical Statistics II","Provides sufficient understanding of medical statistics to read and interpret medical literature critically, identify appropriate statistics for basic research designs used in medicine, and discriminate between appropriate and inappropriate statistical applications for common research designs.","BATS 209A"],"BATS 210A":["BATS","Introduction to Clinical Epidemiology","Introduces principles and practice of clinical epidemiology and the population-based approach to health and disease.","BATS 209A"],"BATS 232":["BATS","Design and Analysis of Clinical Trials","Presents history, organization and planning, rationale for methods, limits, and ethics in conducting clinical trials.","BATS 209A or STAT 250"],"BATS 245A":["BATS","Comparative Effectiveness Research ","Provides a comprehensive overview of comparative effectiveness research (CER) with in-depth methodologic clinical practice and policy\/dissemination issues related to the conduct, interpretation, and clinical applications of CER.",""],"BATS 247":["BATS","Measurement Science, Outcomes Research, and Advanced Applied Methods","Further the understanding of methodologic issues involved in the conducting of comparative effectiveness research (CER). Topics: risk adjustment, balancing observational study designs, use of outcomes from multiple data sources, innovations clinical trial designs, the conduct of meta-analysis, and psychometric methods.",""],"BATS 251":["BATS","Quality Efficiency and Cost Effectiveness","Introduces the principles and practice of quality of care, patient safety, and patient experience research, along with major national and statewide policy and legislative initiatives related to quality of care and patient safety.",""],"BATS 253":["BATS","Disparities in Health and Health Care","Reviews all aspects of culture that influence health status, development of public health policy, and management and practice of health care. Explores how race and ethnicity affect health and health care, including health care services and policies governing these services.",""],"BATS 255":["BATS","Health Politics and Policy","Offers political and analytical insights into understanding U.S. health policymaking and developing strategies that influence health policy outcomes.",""],"BATS 280":["BATS","Biomedical and Translational Science Seminar","Students present their current research or a topic of interest and are exposed to diverse projects in the biomedical and translational science arena.",""],"BATS 295":["BATS","Master's Thesis Research and Writing","Master's thesis research and writing with Biomedical and Translational Science faculty.",""],"BATS 296":["BATS","Ethics in Clinical Research","Covers major frameworks and concepts of ethics in public health research as well as human subject protection issues.",""],"BATS 299":["BATS","Independent Directed Research","Independent research with Biomedical and Translational Science faculty.",""],"BME 1":["BME","Introduction to Biomedical Engineering","Introduction to the central topics of biomedical engineering. Offers a perspective on bioengineering as a discipline in a seminar format. Principles of problem solving, design, engineering inventiveness, entrepreneurship, information access, communication, ethics, teamwork, and social responsibility are emphasized.",""],"BME 3":["BME","Engineering Innovations in Treating Diabetes","Innovations in diabetes treatment from the 1800s until the present: purification of insulin, measuring and control of blood glucose, recombinant DNA, clinical trials, and ethics. Solving optimization problems in engineering with Excel.",""],"BME 50A":["BME","Cell and Molecular Engineering","Molecular, structural, genetic, biophysical, and cellular principles of life and bioengineering. Introduction to molecular bioengineering, genetic engineering, synthetic biology, and cell biology. Applications to genetic and biomolecular design.","r corequisite: BME 1 and (CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C)"],"BME 50B":["BME","Cell and Molecular Engineering","Physiological function from a cellular, molecular, and biophysical perspective. Introduction to genetics, neuronal signaling, and cell cycle control.","BME 50A"],"BME 60A":["BME","Engineering Analysis\/Design: Data Acquisition","Fundamentals of LabVIEW programming, basics of computer-based experimentation, establishing interface between computer and data acquisition instrumentation, signal conditioning basics. Materials fee.","PHYS 7D"],"BME 60B":["BME","Engineering Analysis\/Design: Data Analysis","Overview of MATLAB; numeric, cell, and structure arrays; file management; plotting and model building; solving linear algebraic equations; signal and image processing.  Materials fee.","r corequisite: MATH 3A"],"BME 60C":["BME","Engineering Analysis\/Design: Computer-Aided Design","Introduction to SolidWorks and Computer-Aided Design software; design; analysis; rapid prototyping; visualization and presentation; manufacturing planning. Materials fee.","r corequisite: BME 1"],"BME 60D":["BME","Engineering Analysis\/Design: Finite-Element Simulation","Introduction to finite-element simulation; fundamentals of Multiphysics simulation;.","BME 60B and BME 60C"],"BME 110A":["BME","Biomechanics I","Introduction to statics and dynamics. Topics include rigid bodies, analysis of structures, forces in beams, moments of inertia, friction, kinetics, work, and energy.","PHYS 7C and MATH 3A and MATH 3D and BME 60B and BME 60C"],"BME 110B":["BME","Biomechanics II","Introduction to biomechanics from subcellular to tissue levels. Introduction to stress, strain, and constitutive laws of cells and tissues. Emphasis is placed on biosolids. Introduction to elastic and viscoelastic behaviors with emphasis on the standard linear model of viscoelasticity.","BME 110A"],"BME 110C":["BME","Biomechanics III","Introduction to human biomechanics with emphasis on cardiovascular biomechanics and biofluid mechanics.","BME 110B"],"BME 111":["BME","Design of Biomaterials","Natural and synthetic polymeric materials. Metal and ceramics implant materials. Mechanical properties, degradation, surface characterization, and design of materials. Wound repair, blood clotting, foreign body response, biocompatibility of material. Artificial organs and medical devices. Government regulations.","r corequisite: (BME 50B or BIOL 99) and CHEM 1C"],"BME 114":["BME","Genetic Engineering and Synthetic Biology","Exploring how biological function can be engineered and \"synthesized\" from the DNA level up.","(CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C) and MATH 3D and BME 50A and BME 50B"],"BME 120":["BME","Sensory Motor Systems","A quantitative and systems approach to understanding physiological systems. Systems covered include the nervous and musculoskeletal systems.","(BME 60B or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or CEE 20 or MAE 10) and MATH 3D and PHYS 7D"],"BME 121":["BME","Quantitative Physiology:  Organ Transport Systems","A quantitative and systems approach to understanding physiological systems. Systems covered include the cardiopulmonary, circulatory, and renal systems.","(BME 60B or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or CEE 20 or MAE 10) and MATH 3D"],"BME 130":["BME","Biomedical Signals and Systems","Analysis of analog and digital biomedical signals; Fourier Series expansions; difference and differential equations; convolutions.  System models: discrete-time and continuous-time linear time-invariant systems; Laplace and Fourier transforms. Analysis of signals and systems using computer programs.","r corequisite: BME 60B and (MATH 3A or ICS 6N) and MATH 3D. Recommended: STAT 8."],"BME 132":["BME","Introduction to Computational Biology","The use of theories and methods based on computer science, mathematics, and physics in molecular biology and biochemistry. Basics in biomolecular modeling. Analysis of sequence and structural data of biomolecules. Analysis of biomolecular functions.","MATH 2D or MATH 3A or STAT 7 or STAT 8"],"BME 135":["BME","Photomedicine","Studies the use of optical and engineering-based systems (laser-based) for diagnosis, treating diseases, manipulation of cells and cell function. Physical, optical, and electro-optical principles are explored regarding molecular, cellular, organ, and organism applications.","PHYS 3C or PHYS 7D"],"BME 136":["BME","Engineering Medical Optics","Principles of optics and photonics, integration of optical components into systems and devices, and analysis of physiological signals obtained from Biophotonics measurements.","BME 130 and (BME 135 or BIOL D130)"],"BME 137":["BME","Introduction to Biomedical Imaging","Introduction to imaging modalities widely used in medicine and biology, including X-ray, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine (PET and SPET), ultrasonic imaging, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), optical tomography, imaging contrast, imaging processing, and complementary nature of the imaging modalities.","BME 130 or EECS 50 or EECS 150"],"BME 138":["BME","Spectroscopy and Imaging of Biological Systems","Principles of spectroscopy; absorption; molecular orbitals; multiphoton transitions; Jablonski diagram; fluorescence anisotropy; fluorescence decay; quenching; FRET; excited state reactions; solvent relaxations; instruments; microscopy: wide field, LSM, TPE; fluorescent probes, fluctuations spectroscopy; optical resolution and super-resolution; CARS and SHG microscopy.","(MATH 3A or ICS 6N) and MATH 3D. Recommended: STAT 8."],"BME 140":["BME","Design of Biomedical Electronics","Analog and digital circuits in bioinstrumentation. AC and DC circuit analysis, design and construction of filter and amplifiers using operational amplifier, digitization of signals and data acquisition, bioelectrical signals, design and construction of ECG instrument, bioelectrical signal measurement and analysis.  Materials fee.","BME 60A and BME 130"],"BME 142":["BME","Microfabrication","Essentials of photolithography, soft-lithography, microfabrication, Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS), BioMEMS; applications in biomedical engineering.",""],"BME 147":["BME","Microfluidics and Lab-on-a-Chip","Introduction to principles of microfluidics and state-of-the-art micro Total Analysis Systems (uTAS). Lab-on-a-Chip for bimolecular assays with device design principles for microscale sample preparation, flow transport, bimolecular manipulation, separation and detection, and the technologies for integrating these devices into microsystems.","BME 110C"],"BME 148":["BME","Microimplants","Essential concepts of biomedical implants at the micro scale. Design, fabrication, and applications of several microimplantable devices including cochlear, retinal, neural, and muscular implants.","BME 111"],"BME 150":["BME","Biotransport Phenomena","Fundamentals of heat and mass transfer, similarities in the respective rate equations. Emphasis on practical application of fundamental principles.","(BME 60B or CEE 20) and (MATH 3A or ICS 6N) and MATH 3D"],"BME 160":["BME","Tissue Engineering","Quantitative analysis of cell and tissue functions. Emerging developments in stem cell technology, biodegradable scaffolds, growth factors, and others important in developing clinical products. Applications of bioengineering.","(BME 50B or BIOL 99) and BME 111 and BME 121 and BME 150"],"BME 161":["BME","Introduction to Modern Bioengineering Tools","A broad picture of diverse modern bioengineering tools, including genetic engineering and its risks to society, how to sequence DNA\/RNA molecules with single base resolution, how to manipulate small biomolecules one at a time.","(BME 50A and BME 50B) or (BIOL 97 and BIOL 98 and BIOL 99)"],"BME 170":["BME","Biomedical Engineering Laboratory","Measurement and analysis of biological systems using engineering tools and techniques. Laboratory experiments involve living systems with the emphasis on measuring physiological parameters. Materials fee.","BME 50B and BME 120 and BME 130"],"BME 171":["BME","Cell and Tissue Engineering Laboratory","Techniques in molecular, cellular, and tissue engineering.  Topics include bacterial and mammalian cell culture, DNA cloning and gene transfer, fabrication of biomaterial scaffolds, and immunassays and microscopy techniques for cell-based assays.","BME 160"],"BME 179":["BME","Biomedical Engineering Design: Addressing Unmet Clinical Needs","Introduction to unmet clinical needs identification and evaluation in biomedical engineering design.","(BME 60B or MAE 10 or EECS 10) and (BME 60C or MAE 52 or EECS 31L) and (BME 140 or MAE 106 or EECS 170B)"],"BME 180A":["BME","Biomedical Engineering Design","Design strategies, techniques, tools, and protocols commonly encountered in biomedical engineering; industrial design experience in group projects; ethics, economic analysis, and FDA product approval. Materials fee.","(BME 60B or MAE 10 or EECS 10) and (BME 60C or MAE 52 or EECS 31L) and (BME 140 or MAE 106 or EECS 170B). BME 180A, BME 180B, and BME 180C must be taken in the same academic year."],"BME 180B":["BME","Biomedical Engineering Design","Design strategies, techniques, tools, and protocols commonly encountered in biomedical engineering; industrial design experience in group projects; ethics, economic analysis, and FDA product approval. Materials fee.","BME 180A. BME 180A, BME 180B, and BME 180C must be taken in the same academic year."],"BME 180C":["BME","Biomedical Engineering Design","Design strategies, techniques, tools, and protocols commonly encountered in biomedical engineering; industrial design experience in group projects; ethics, economic analysis, and FDA product approval. Materials fee.","BME 180B. BME 180A, BME 180B, and BME 180C must be taken in the same academic year."],"BME 195":["BME","Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Biomedical Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"BME 197":["BME","Seminars in Biomedical Engineering","Presentation of advanced topics and reports of current research efforts in Biomedical Engineering.",""],"BME 199":["BME","Individual Study","Independent research conducted in the lab of a biomedical engineering core faculty member. A formal written report of the research conducted is required at the conclusion of the quarter.",""],"BME 199P":["BME","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"BME 201P":["BME","Biomedical Big Data","Analysis and visualization of large biomedical datasets. Topics covered include cloud computing, learning Structured Query Language (SQL), database normalization and joins, using Google's BigQuery, using the statistical analysis package R, machine learning algorithms, application of machine learning for classification problems.",""],"BME 202P":["BME","Biomedical Imaging and Biophotonics","Designed as a subfield of optical imaging and biophotonics as it applies to their applications to basic lifesciences and in vivo imaging to diagnose disease. Topics span all of of the areas of biophotonics and techniques.",""],"BME 203P":["BME","Digital Health","Digital health is the convergence of genomics and technology to radically change the way health and medicine is practiced. Explores the history of healthcare in the U.S., its current status, and the future of digital health.",""],"BME 210":["BME","Molecular and Cellular Engineering","Engineering of physiological function at the genetic, cellular, and tissue scales. Topics include cloning and genetic engineering, extracellular matrix biomaterials, principles of regenerative medicine and tissue engineering, and experimental design.",""],"BME 210P":["BME","Molecular and Cellular Engineering","Engineering of physiological function at the genetic, cellular, and tissue scales. Topics include cloning and genetic engineering, extracellular matrix biomaterials, principles of regenerative medicine and tissue engineering, and experimental design.",""],"BME 211":["BME","Microscale Tissue Engineering","Engineering of physiological function at the scale of individual cells. Topics include cell micropatterning, microfluidic tissue culture, engineering the cellular microenvironment, and microphysiological systems.",""],"BME 211P":["BME","Microscale Tissue Engineering","Engineering of physiological function at the scale of individual cells. Topics include cell micropatterning, microfluidic tissue culture, engineering the cellular microenvironment, and microphysiological systems.",""],"BME 212":["BME","Cardiovascular Mechanobiology","Advanced topics in cellular engineering and mechanobiology, with focus on the cardiovascular system.  Tools and techniques used to manipulate and measure mechanical forces at the molecular, cellular, tissue, and organ levels, and their applications in cardiovascular devices and tissue engineering.",""],"BME 212P":["BME","Cardiovascular Mechanobiology","Advanced topics in cellular engineering and mechanobiology, with focus on the cardiovascular system. Tools and techniques used to manipulate and measure mechanical forces at the molecular, cellular, tissue, and organ levels, and their applications in cardiovascular devices and tissue engineering.",""],"BME 213":["BME","Systems Cell and Developmental Biology","Introduces concepts needed to understand cell and developmental biology at the systems level, i.e., how the parts (molecules) work together to create a complex output. Emphasis on using mathematical\/computational modeling to expand\/modify insights provided by intuition.",""],"BME 220":["BME","Sensory Motor Systems","A quantitative and systems approach to understanding physiological systems. Systems covered include the nervous and musculoskeletal systems.",""],"BME 220P":["BME","Sensory Motor Systems","A quantitative and systems approach to understanding physiological systems. Systems covered include the nervous and musculoskeletal systems.",""],"BME 221":["BME","Organ Transport Systems","A quantitative and systems approach to understanding physiological systems. Systems covered include the cardiopulmonary, circulatory, and renal systems.",""],"BME 221P":["BME","Organ Transport Systems","Applies engineering models and mathematics to understand human physiology in order to understand the physiology. Covers the pulmonary, cardiac, and cardiovascular systems focusing on transport phenomena.",""],"BME 222":["BME","Biofluid Mechanics   ","Introduces principles of biofluid mechanics in a research oriented scheme and approaches a wide spectrum of biofluid related problems in human body and solutions that involves engineering concepts.",""],"BME 224":["BME","Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics","Principles underlying the application of photonic technologies to biomolecular and cellular systems. Sample technologies Optical Tweezers, Linear and Nonlinear Optical Microscopy and Fluorescence Lifetime and Correlation Methods, and their use to investigate emergent problems in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology.",""],"BME 225":["BME","Tissue and Organ Biophotonics","Principles underlying the application of photonic technologies to tissues, organs, organisms. Sample technologies include Optical Coherence Tomography, Optical Speckle Imaging, Optoacoustic Imaging, Wide-Field Spectroscopic Imaging, Diffuse Optical Spectroscopy. Addressing the use of these technologies to detect\/monitor disease and physiological processes.",""],"BME 230A":["BME","Applied Engineering Mathematics I","Analytical techniques applied to engineering problems in transport phenomena, process dynamics and control, and thermodynamics.",""],"BME 230B":["BME","Applied Engineering Mathematics II","Focuses on biomedical system identification. Includes fundamental techniques of model building and testing such as formulation, solution of governing equations, sensitivity theory, identifiability theory, and uncertainty analysis.",""],"BME 232":["BME","Introduction to Computational Biology","The use of theories and methods based on computer science, mathematics, and physics in molecular biology and biochemistry. Basics in biomolecular modeling. Analysis of sequence and structural data of biomolecules. Analysis of biomolecular functions.",""],"BME 233":["BME","Dynamic Systems in Biology and Medicine","Introduces principles of system theory to analyze biological, biochemical, physiological, and bioengineering systems. Analytical and computational tools are used to model and analyze dynamic systems such as population, neuronal and heart dynamics, biochemical and physiological systems, oxygen diffusion and similar.",""],"BME 233P":["BME","Dynamic Systems in Biology and Medicine","Introduces the elements of system theory, and applies these principles to analyze biomedical, chemical, social, and engineering systems. Using analytical and computational tools to model and analyze various dynamic systems.",""],"BME 234":["BME","Neuroimaging Data Analysis","Knowledge and understanding of recent techniques for the analysis of healthy and pathological structure and function in neuroimaging data.",""],"BME 234P":["BME","Neuroimaging Data Analysis","Knowledge and understanding of recent techniques for the analysis of healthy and pathological structure and function in neuroimaging data.",""],"BME 235":["BME","Analysis of Neural Time Series","Hands-on introduction to techniques for the analysis of neural time series data, with a primary focus on the electroencephalogram (EEG). Topics may include the physiological basis of EEG, time-frequency analysis, spatial filtering, and methods of assessing connectivity.",""],"BME 238":["BME","Spectroscopy and Imaging of Biological Systems","Principles of spectroscopy; absorption; molecular orbitals; multiphoton transitions; Jablonski diagram; fluorescence anisotropy; fluorescence decay; quenching; FRET; excited state reactions; solvent relaxations; instruments; microscopy: wide field, LSM, TPE; fluorescent probes, fluctuations spectroscopy; optical resolution and super-resolution; CARS and SHG microscopy.",""],"BME 238P":["BME","Spectroscopy and Imaging of Biological Systems","Principles of spectroscopy; absorption; molecular orbitals; multiphoton transitions; Jablonski diagram; fluorescence anisotropy; fluorescence decay; quenching; FRET; excited state reactions; solvent relaxations; instruments; microscopy: wide field, LSM, TPE; fluorescent probes, fluctuations spectroscopy; optical resolution and super-resolution; CARS and SHG microscopy.",""],"BME 240":["BME","Introduction to Clinical Medicine for Biomedical Engineering","An introduction to clinical medicine for graduate students in biomedical engineering. Lectures and rotations through nephology, gastroenterology, pulmonary, and critical care cardiology.",""],"BME 240P":["BME","Introduction to Clinical Medicine for Biomedical Engineering","An introduction to clinical medicine for graduate students in biomedical engineering. Lectures and rotations through nephology, gastroenterology, pulmonary, and critical care cardiology.",""],"BME 251":["BME","Engineering Medical Optics","Principles of optics and photonics, integration of optical components into systems and devices, and analysis of physiologic signals obtained from Biophotonics measurements.",""],"BME 251P":["BME","Engineering Medical Optics","Principles of optics and photonics, integration of optical components into systems and devices, and analysis of physiologic signals obtained from Biophotonics measurements.",""],"BME 252":["BME","Critical Thinking in Biophotonics","Critical thematic review of current research papers in the field of Biophotonics.","BME 224 or BME 225"],"BME 260":["BME","Microfluids and Lab-On-A-Chip","Introduction to microfluidics and state-of-the-art micro Total Analysis Systems (uTAS). Lab-on-a-Chip for biomolecular assays with device design principles for microscale sample preparation, flow transport, biolmolecular manipulation, separation and detection, and the technologies for integrating these devices into microsystems.",""],"BME 260P":["BME","Microfluids and Lab-on-a-Chip","Introduction to microfluidics and state-of-the-art micro Total Analysis Systems (uTAS). Lab-on-a-Chip for biomolecular assays with device design principles for microscale sample preparation, flow transport, biolmolecular manipulation, separation and detection, and the technologies for integrating these devices into microsystems.",""],"BME 262":["BME","Microimplants","Essential concepts of biomedical implants at the micro scale. Design, fabrication, and applications of several microimplantable devices including cochlear, retinal, neural, and muscular implants.",""],"BME 262P":["BME","Microimplants","Essential concepts of biomedical implants at the micro scale. Design, fabrication, and applications of several microimplantable devices including cochlear, retinal, neural, and muscular implants.",""],"BME 290":["BME","Critical Thinking and Writing","Critical thinking and writing are essential ingredients for success in scientific research. Examines examples from the scientific literature to extract principles of good scientific reasoning, experimental design, and writing.",""],"BME 295":["BME","Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Biomedical Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"BME 295P":["BME","Special Topics in Biomedical Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Biomedical Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"BME 296":["BME","Master of Science Thesis Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in the pursuit of preparing and completing the thesis required for the M.S. in Engineering.",""],"BME 297":["BME","Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in the pursuit of preparing and completing the dissertation required for the Ph.D. in Engineering.",""],"BME 298":["BME","Seminars in Biomedical Engineering","Presentation of advanced topics and reports of current research efforts in biomedical engineering. Designed for graduate students in the Biomedical Engineering program.",""],"BME 299":["BME","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty.",""],"BANA 200":["BANA","Foundations of Business Analytics","Provides overview of the field of business analytics, and the theory and practice underpinnings of the three MSBA curricular tracks: Data Analytics, Marketing Analytics, and Operations Analytics. Provides students with a working knowledge of the R programming language.",""],"BANA 201A":["BANA","Statistics for Data Science","Methods of statistical inference, emphasizing applications to administrative and management decision problems. Topics include classical estimation and hypothesis testing, regression, correlation, analysis of variance, decision analysis, and forecasting.",""],"BANA 201B":["BANA","Management Science for Analytics","An introduction to computer-based models for decision making. Topics include optimization (linear programming, integer programming, network flow models) and computer simulation. Uses spreadsheets extensively, including Excel built-in and add-in packages.",""],"BANA 205":["BANA","Foundations of Marketing","Introduction to the field of marketing. Objectives include developing familiarity with fundamental concepts, theories, and techniques in marketing, and acquainting students with the type of decisions made by marketing managers, including customer targeting, product, pricing, distribution, promotion, and research.",""],"BANA 211":["BANA","MSBA ProSeminar","Provides students in the Merage School Master of Science in Business Analytics program with information and practical skills for success in the MSBA program and for business career planning.",""],"BANA 212":["BANA","Data and Programming for Analytics","Challenges and teaches students how to handle data, from initial data acquisition to final data analysis. Provides students with a working knowledge of the Python programming language.","Basic familiarity with programming is recommended."],"BANA 241":["BANA","Business Analytics Internship","Students apply analytics and big data knowledge obtained from classroom theory through work experiences. Provides knowledge of career opportunities, an understanding of the role analytics plays in business environments, and preparation for the business analytics profession.",""],"BANA 271":["BANA","Marketing Analytics","Introduces students to quantitative marketing analytics methods and teaches them how to apply the methods to business problems of interest. Topics include: resource allocation and ROI, marketing mix analytics, customer analytics, market segmentation and targeting, advertising, promotions, and digital marketing.",""],"BANA 273":["BANA","Machine Learning for Analytics","Introduces methods to mine data repositories for business intelligence to facilitate analytical decision-making. Topics include clustering for market segmentation, association rules to discover relationships between different purchase decisions, and  Naive-Bayes classification techniques for decision making using decision-trees.",""],"BANA 274":["BANA","Deep Learning and Applications","Provides students with an understanding of specific topics in machine learning including networks and deep learning, improving neural networks, structuring deep learning projects, and convolutional neural networks.",""],"BANA 275":["BANA","Natural Language Processing and Applications","Focuses on providing students knowledge of advanced techniques for data analytics. Students deepen their understanding of topics including: dimension reduction, text mining and topic modeling, sentiment analysis, collaborative filtering, and causal estimation.",""],"BANA 277":["BANA","Customer and Social Analytics","Examines how business managers can leverage Web 2.0 and social media analytics to create value for their organizations and customers. Topics include digital and social strategies; Web and search analytics; display and mobile advertising; social networks and influence; social media.",""],"BANA 279":["BANA","Business Data Management","Provides essential knowledge for business managers to store and utilize data effectively. Aims to introduce the core concepts in databases, data warehouses, and big data on cloud. Offers an in-depth understanding of each technology's core concepts with hands-on programming.",""],"BANA 287":["BANA","The Art and Science of Applied Forecast Modeling","Covers core and advanced techniques of forecasting. Emphasizes the innovation required to develop accurate models, inspires the need to break rules, leverages ideation needed to discover data sources and engineer variables, and seeks ways to build new models.",""],"BANA 288":["BANA","Predictive Analytics","Deals with predicting entities (forecasting) and predicting membership of known groups (classification). Blends methodologies of forecasting and data mining, focusing on multiple regression, logistic regression, neural nets, ARIMA, discriminate analysis, and k-nearest neighbors, and applying these methods to managerial problems\/decision-making.",""],"BANA 290":["BANA","Special Topics in Business Analytics","Studies in selected areas of business analytics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"BANA 294":["BANA","Big Data Analytics with Hadoop","In-depth hands-on exploration of various cutting-edge information technologies used for big data analytics. Focuses on using Hadoop, Sqoop, Pig, and Hive for ETL operations and on understanding the MapReduce algorithm using Apache Mahout for data mining algorithms.",""],"BANA 295":["BANA","Big Data Management Systems","Provides an introductory-level overview to the emerging technologies in database systems. Students gain critical insight into big data challenges, the choices of different systems and technologies available, relative advantages\/disadvantages, and unique aspects of different systems.",""],"BANA 298A":["BANA","Business Analytics Capstone Prep","Prep course for the required capstone project. Students apply the knowledge and methods acquired through the program's coursework to an applied business analytics problem. Requirements include project selection, submission of project plan, and data collection\/analysis.",""],"BANA 298B":["BANA","Business Analytics Capstone Project","Continuation of the capstone project. Students apply the knowledge and methods acquired through the coursework in the program to an applied business analytics problem. Work includes data analysis, completed research paper, and final presentation.","BANA 298A"],"BANA 299":["BANA","Individual Study","Individual study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"CBE 1":["CBE","Introduction to Chemical Engineering","Helps new students successfully transition to UCI, build a sense of community in the department, develop networking and professional skills, and introduce a variety of industries who employ chemical engineers through a series of guest lectures.",""],"CBE 40A":["CBE","Chemical Processes and Material Balances","Introduction to chemical engineering and the industries where chemical engineers play vital roles. Problem-solving skills and techniques. Quantitative calculations and applications using mass and energy balances. Stoichiometric equations, multiple bypasses, and others in process industries.","MATH 2B and PHYS 7C and (CHEM 1B or CHEM H2B)"],"CBE 40B":["CBE","Process Thermodynamics","Principles of thermodynamics: definitions, basic concepts, and laws; property relationships; construction of thermodynamic charts and tables; energy balances; phase and chemical equilibria; combined mass and energy balances.","CBE 40A and (MATH 3A or ICS 6N). CBE 40A with a grade of C- or better"],"CBE 40C":["CBE","Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics","Elements of chemical engineering thermodynamics, including equilibrium and stability; equations of state; generalized correlations of properties of materials; properties of ideal and non-ideal mixtures; thermodynamics of real solutions; ideal and non-ideal phase equilibria; chemical equilibria for ideal and non-ideal solutions.","r corequisite: MAE 10 and MATH 2D and CBE 40B. CBE 40B with a grade of C- or better"],"CBE 100":["CBE","Introduction to Numerical Methods in Engineering","An introduction to the fundamentals of numerical analysis and the computer algorithms in MATLAB for the solution of engineering problems, with emphasis on problems arising in chemical engineering thermodynamics, transport phenomena, and reaction engineering.","CBE 40C"],"CBE 105":["CBE","Engineering Physical Chemistry","Provides an integrated view of both classical and molecular perspectives on thermodynamics, thermodynamic potentials, entropy, and the second law. Students learn how to use statistical mechanics to create a bridge between the quantum mechanical world and the familiar macroscopic one.","CHEM 1C and CBE 40C and (PHYS 7D or PHYS 7E)"],"CBE 110":["CBE","Reaction Kinetics and Reactor Design","Introduction to quantitative analysis of chemical reactions and chemical reactor design. Reactor operations including batch, continuous stirred tank, and tubular reactor. Homogeneous and heterogeneous reactions.","CHEM 1C and MATH 3D and CBE 40B and CBE 40C and CBE 100. CBE 40B with a grade of C- or better. CBE 40C with a grade of C- or better"],"CBE 120A":["CBE","Momentum Transfer","Fluid statics, surface tension, Newton's law of viscosity, non-Newtonian and complex flows, momentum equations, laminar and turbulent flow, velocity profiles, flow in pipes and around objects, piping systems design, pumps and mixing, and other applications to chemical and related industries.","CBE 40C and MATH 3D. CBE 40C with a grade of C- or better"],"CBE 120B":["CBE","Heat Transfer","Principles of conduction, radiation, and convection of heat; phenomenological rate laws, differential and macroscopic energy balances; heat transfer rates, steady state and unsteady state conduction, convection; applications to chemical and related industries.","CBE 120A. CBE 120A with a grade of C- or better"],"CBE 120C":["CBE","Mass Transfer","Molecular and continuum approaches to diffusion and convection in multi-component mixtures; steady state, quasi-steady state and transient mass transfer; effect of reactions on mass transfer; convective mass transfer; simultaneous mass, heat and momentum transfer; applications to chemical and related industries.","CBE 120B and CBE 100"],"CBE 130":["CBE","Separation Processes","Application of equilibria and mass and energy balances for design of separation processes. Use of equilibrium laws for design of distillation, absorption, stripping, and extraction equipment. Design of multicomponent separators.","CBE 40B and CBE 40C. CBE 40B with a grade of C- or better. CBE 40C with a grade of C- or better"],"CBE 140A":["CBE","Chemical Engineering Laboratory I","Experimental study of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat and mass transfer. Operation and evaluation of process equipment, data analysis.  Materials fee.","CBE 110 and CBE 120C"],"CBE 140B":["CBE","Chemical Engineering Laboratory II","Continuation of the CBE 140A covering mass transfer operations such as distillation, absorption, extraction, etc. Rate and equilibria studies in simple chemical systems with and without reaction. Study of chemical process. Materials fee.","CBE 130 and CBE 145 and CBE 140A"],"CBE 145":["CBE","Chemical Process Control","Dynamic responses and control of chemical process equipment, dynamic modeling of chemical processes, linear system analysis, analyses and design of feedback loops and advanced control systems.","CBE 110 and CBE 120B and CBE 120C"],"CBE 150A":["CBE","Chemical Engineering Design I","Introduction to process design; flow sheets for chemical processes; synthesis of multicomponent separation sequences and reaction paths; synthesis of heat exchange networks; computer-aided design and simulation of processes and components pacts.","CBE 110 and CBE 120C and CBE 130"],"CBE 150B":["CBE","Chemical Engineering Design II","Application of chemical engineering basics to practical design problems; process economics; process safety; environmental impacts; a major team design project with progress reports, oral presentation, and technical report with engineering drawings and economics.","CBE 150A"],"CBE 160":["CBE","Engineering Biology","First-principle introduction to the modern biochemistry, molecular biology, and cell biology with an engineering language. The goal is to demonstrate that the vastly diverse biological phenomena can be explained by a set of fundamental principles in chemistry, thermodynamics, and kinetics.",""],"CBE 161":["CBE","Introduction to Biochemical Engineering","Application of engineering principles to biochemical processes. Topics include microbial pathways, energetics and control systems, enzyme and microbial kinetics, and the design and analysis of biological reactors.","CBE 110 and CBE 160 and (CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C) and MATH 3D"],"CBE 163":["CBE","Kinetics of Biochemical Networks","Principles from statistical mechanics, thermodynamics, and chemical kinetics applied to biochemical systems, from fundamental processes such as receptor-ligand binding and enzyme catalysis, to complex cellular functions including signal transduction and gene regulation.","CBE 120A and CBE 160"],"CBE 172":["CBE","Applied Spectroscopy","Designed to teach fundamental principles of spectroscopy and their application to photon and electron spectroscopies of the gas and condensed phases. Covers theoretical principles of rotational, vibrational, and electronic spectroscopies. Specific topics include infrared and Raman spectroscopies, Auger, X-ray, etc.","CBE 40C and CBE 105 and MATH 3D"],"CBE 175":["CBE","Electrochemical Engineering","Introduction to fundamentals of electrochemical engineering and its application to variety of energy conversion- and storage-technologies. Planned topics include: electric double layers, reaction kinetics, transport, batteries, fuel-cells.",""],"CBE 176":["CBE","Nuclear and Radiochemistry","Advanced treatment of nuclear structure, nuclear reactions, and radioactive-decay processes. Introduction to nuclear activation analysis, isotope effects, radiation chemistry, hot-atom chemistry, nuclear age-dating methods, nuclear reactors, and nuclear power.","(CHEM M3C or CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M2C) and MATH 2D"],"CBE 181":["CBE","Polymer Science and Engineering","An introduction to physical aspects of polymers, including configuration and conformation of polymer chains and characterization techniques; crystallinity, viscoelasticity, mechanical properties, polymer alloys, processing, and application.","ENGR 54 and (CBE 110 or MSE 165)"],"CBE 183":["CBE","Surface and Adhesion Science","Structure, thermodynamics of, kinetics, and reactions on surfaces. Surface electronic and mechanical properties and characterization of all classes of materials including metals, semiconductors, ceramics, polymers, and soft materials. Adhesion between different materials is also addressed.","(CBE 110 or MSE 165C) and (MSE 141 or MSE 69)"],"CBE 187":["CBE","Semiconductor Device Packaging","Introduction to the semiconductor device packaging and assembly process. Electrical, thermal, optical, and mechanical aspects of package design and reliability. Special topics on optoelectronics packaging are covered.","CBE 40B"],"CBE 195":["CBE","Special Topics in Chemical Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Chemical Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CBE 198":["CBE","Group Study","Group study of selected topics in engineering.",""],"CBE 199":["CBE","Individual Study","For undergraduate engineering majors in supervised but independent readings, research, or design. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"CBE 199P":["CBE","Individual Study","For undergraduate Engineering majors in supervised but independent reading, research, or design. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in The School of Engineering.",""],"CBE 200":["CBE","Applied Engineering Mathematics I","Analytical techniques applied to engineering problems in transport phenomena, process dynamics and control, and thermodynamics.",""],"CBE 210":["CBE","Reaction Engineering","Advanced topics in reaction engineering, reactor stability analysis, diffusional effect in heterogeneous catalysis, energy balance, optimization of reactor operation, dispersed in phase reactors.",""],"CBE 220A":["CBE","Transport Phenomena I","Continuum modeling and analysis of heat and mass transfer from an integrated viewpoint. Scaling concepts, relevance of characteristic time- and length-scales, steady- and unsteady-state processes, bounded and unbounded problems, and convective transport, with applications to chemical and biological processes.",""],"CBE 220B":["CBE","Transport Phenomena II","Introduces flow of isothermal fluids from a momentum transport viewpoint. Steady- and unsteady-state creeping and laminar flows; viscous and inviscid flows; Navier-Stokes equations; lubrication theory; boundary layer theory; with specific application to complex chemical and biological engineering processes.","CBE 220A"],"CBE 240":["CBE","Advanced Engineering Thermodynamics","Introduction to modern thermodynamics and applications, with a focus on aspects relevant to chemical and materials engineering. Mathematical tools; equilibrium and stability; microscope rigorous equations of state; molecular-level thermodynamics of real mixtures; and phase and chemical equilibrium.",""],"CBE 249":["CBE","Special Topics in Chemical Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Chemical Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CBE 250":["CBE","Research Methods and Technical Communication","Intended for Ph.D. students to develop critical research skills in creating archival papers, intellectual property and technical proposals, and in analysis of the scientific literature.",""],"CBE 261":["CBE","Molecular Biotechnology","Engineering and biological principles important in recombinant cell technology. Host\/vector selection; plasmid propagation; optimization of cloned gene expression; metabolic engineering; protein secretion; experimental techniques; modeling of recombinant cell systems.",""],"CBE 262":["CBE","Metabolic Engineering and Synthetic Biology","Synthesis of chemicals from renewable carbon and energy sources using.",""],"CBE 264":["CBE","Drug Delivery","Introduction to design of drug delivery systems. Includes physicochemical and pharmacokinetic considerations in drug formulations, types of therapeutics, routes of administration, biomaterials, and novel drug delivery systems.",""],"CBE 266":["CBE","Bioseparation Processes","Introduction to design of bioseparation processes. The recovery and purification of biologically produced proteins, chemicals, and particulates are important. Focuses on the use of chemical engineering skills and principles in the analysis and design of biologically-based processes.",""],"CBE 271":["CBE","Catalysis","Establish the microscopic thermodynamics of rate constants and develop quantitative rate laws to model multistep reaction kinetics typical of catalyzed reactions. Common elementary chemical transformations and characteristics of catalytic materials are discussed, citing reactions from industry and current research.",""],"CBE 272":["CBE","Applied Spectroscopy","Designed to teach fundamental principles of spectroscopy and their application to photon and electron spectroscopies of the gas and condensed phases. Covers theoretical principles of rotational, vibrational, and electronic spectroscopies. Specific topics include infrared and Raman spectroscopies, Auger, X-ray, etc.",""],"CBE 276":["CBE","Nuclear and Radiochemistry","Advanced treatment of nuclear structure, nuclear reactions, and radioactive-decay processes. Introduction to nuclear activation analysis, isotope effects, radiation chemistry, hot-atom chemistry, nuclear age-dating methods, nuclear reactors, and nuclear power.",""],"CBE 277":["CBE","Detection and Measurement of Radiation","Basic principles of detection and measurement of ionizing radiation; both theory and practical aspects of measurement techniques for alpha, beta, gamma, and neutron radiation, properties of different detector materials, electronics and data treatments, and analysis.","CHEM 233 or CBE 276"],"CBE 280":["CBE","Advanced Polymer Science and Engineering","The synthesis, characterization, microstructure, rheology, and properties of polymer materials. Polymers in solution and in the liquid, crystalline and glassy states. Engineering and processing properties, including viscoelasticity and rheology. Forming and processing methods. Environmental issues.",""],"CBE 282":["CBE","Colloid Science and Engineering","An introduction to the basic foundations of colloid science, interfacial phenomena, suspensions and complex fluids, and engineering and assembly of colloidal materials.",""],"CBE 283":["CBE","Surface and Adhesion Science","Structure, thermodynamics of, kinetics, and reactions on surfaces. Surface electronic and mechanical properties and characterization of all classes of materials including metals, semiconductors, ceramics, polymers, and soft materials. Adhesion between different materials is also addressed.",""],"CBE 295":["CBE","Seminars in Engineering","Seminars scheduled each year by individual faculty in major field of interest.",""],"CBE 296":["CBE","Master of Science Thesis Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the thesis required for the M.S. degree.",""],"CBE 297":["CBE","Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the dissertation required for the Ph.D. degree.",""],"CBE 298":["CBE","Seminars in Engineering","Presentation of advanced topics and reports of current research efforts in chemical engineering.",""],"CBE 299":["CBE","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"CHEM 1A":["CHEM","General Chemistry","General chemistry with applications to life sciences, physical sciences, and engineering. Atomic structure; general properties of the elements; covalent, ionic, and metallic bonding; mass relationships.","r corequisite: MATH 5A or MATH 2A or PHYS 7C or CHEM 1X or CHEM 1P or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics or SAT Subject Chemistry or AP Chemistry or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. CHEM 1P with a grade of C- or better. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 600. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 27. SAT Subject Chemistry with a minimum score of 700. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 3. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"CHEM 1B":["CHEM","General Chemistry","General chemistry with applications to life sciences, physical sciences, and engineering. Properties of gases, liquids, solids; intermolecular forces; changes of state; properties of solutions; stoichiometry; thermochemistry; and thermodynamics.  Course may be offered online.","CHEM 1A or ENGR 1A or CHEM H2A or AP Chemistry or CHEM M2A. CHEM 1A with a grade of C- or better. ENGR 1A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2A with a grade of C- or better. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 4. CHEM M2A with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 1C":["CHEM","General Chemistry  ","General chemistry with applications to life sciences, physical sciences, and engineering. Equilibria, aqueous acid-base equilibria, solubility equilibria, oxidation reduction reactions, electrochemistry; kinetics; special topics.","CHEM 1B. CHEM 1B with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 1LA":["CHEM","General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in basic laboratory techniques through experiments related to lecture topics in Chemistry 1A.  Materials fee.",""],"CHEM 1LC":["CHEM","General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in basic laboratory techniques. Chemical practice and principles illustrated through experiments related to lecture topics of CHEM 1A-B-C. Materials fee.","CHEM 1B. CHEM 1B with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 1LD":["CHEM","General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in basic laboratory techniques. Chemical practice and principles illustrated through experiments related to lecture topics in CHEM 1A-B-C. Materials fee.","(CHEM 1C and CHEM 1LC) or CHEM 1LE. CHEM 1C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LC with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LE with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 1LE":["CHEM","Accelerated General Chemistry Lab","Lecture and experiments covering chemical concepts for accelerated students who do not plan to take organic chemistry. Properties of gases, liquids, solutions, and solids; chemical  equilibrium and chemical thermodynamics; atomic and molecular  structure; chemical kinetics; electrochemistry. Materials fee.","r corequisite: CHEM 1A or ENGR 1A or AP Chemistry. CHEM 1A with a grade of C- or better. ENGR 1A with a grade of C- or better. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 3"],"CHEM 1P":["CHEM","Preparation for General Chemistry ","Units of measurement, dimensional analysis, significant figures; elementary concepts of volume, mass, force, pressure, energy, density, temperature, heat, work; fundamentals of atomic and molecular structure; the mole concept, stoichiometry; properties of the states of matter; gas laws; solutions concentrations.",""],"CHEM 1X":["CHEM","General Chemistry Plus","Units of chemical measurements, dimensional analysis, significant figures; elementary physicochemical concepts; fundamentals of atomic and molecular structure; molar amounts and stoichiometry; properties of the states of matter; solutions concentrations.","Students who meet the requirements for taking Chem 1A through their SAT, ACT, or AP test scores are not eligible for enrollment in Chem 1X. Specifically, the students must have ALL of the following advisory prerequisites (the inverse of the Chem 1A prerequisites): S02<600 (score below 600 on the SAT Mathematics Reasoning test) A02<27 (score below 27 on the ACT Mathematics test) Z43<700 (score below 700 on the SAT Chemistry subject exam) AP25<3 (score below 3 on the AP Chemistry exam) AP66<4 (score below 4 on the AP Calculus AB Exam) AP68<3 (score below 3 on the AP Calculus BC Exam) Students who meet Chem 1A eligibility through ALEKS-based training are permitted to enroll in Chem 1X. Chem 1X is open to interested BioEASE students. "],"CHEM H2A":["CHEM","Honors General Chemistry","Covers the same material as CHEM 1A-CHEM 1B-CHEM M3C but in greater depth. Additional topics will also be included as time permits.","AP Chemistry or SAT Subject Chemistry. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 4. SAT Subject Chemistry with a minimum score of 700"],"CHEM H2B":["CHEM","Honors General Chemistry","Covers the same material as CHEM 1A-CHEM 1B-CHEM M3C but in greater depth. Additional topics are also included as time permits.","CHEM H2A and (CHEM H2LA or CHEM M2LA). CHEM H2A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LA with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LA with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM H2C":["CHEM","Honors General Chemistry","Covers the same material as CHEM 1A-CHEM 1B-CHEM M3C but in greater depth. Additional topics are also included as time permits.","CHEM H2B and (CHEM H2LB or CHEM M2LB). CHEM H2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM H2LA":["CHEM","Honors General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in fundamental and analytical laboratory techniques through experiments related to lecture topics in CHEM H2A-CHEM H2B-CHEM H2C. Materials fee.","AP Chemistry or SAT Subject Chemistry. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 4. SAT Subject Chemistry with a minimum score of 700"],"CHEM H2LB":["CHEM","Honors General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in fundamental and analytical laboratory techniques through experiments related to lecture topics in CHEM H2A-CHEM H2B-CHEM H2C. Materials fee.","CHEM H2A and (CHEM H2LA or CHEM M2LA). CHEM H2A with a grade of B or better. CHEM H2LA with a grade of B or better. CHEM M2LA with a grade of B or better"],"CHEM H2LC":["CHEM","Honors General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in fundamental and analytical laboratory techniques through experiments related to lecture topics in CHEM H2A-CHEM H2B-CHEM H2C. Materials fee.","CHEM H2B and (CHEM H2LB or CHEM M2LB). CHEM H2B with a grade of B or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of B or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of B or better"],"CHEM M2A":["CHEM","Majors General Chemistry Lecture","Covers the same material as CHEM 1A but in greater depth. Additional topics are included as time permits.","r corequisite: MATH 5A or MATH 2A or PHYS 7C or CHEM 1X or CHEM 1P or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics or SAT Subject Chemistry or AP Chemistry or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. CHEM 1P with a grade of C- or better. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 600. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 27. SAT Subject Chemistry with a minimum score of 700. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 3. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3. Placement via a passing score on the ALEKS placement exam is also accepted."],"CHEM M2B":["CHEM","Majors General Chemistry Lecture","Covers the same material as CHEM 1B but in greater depth. Additional topics will also be included as time permits.","CHEM M2A and CHEM M2LA. CHEM M2A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LA with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M2C":["CHEM","Majors General Chemistry Lecture","Covers the same material as CHEM 1C but in greater depth. Additional topics are also included as time permits.","CHEM M2B and CHEM M2LB. CHEM M2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M2LA":["CHEM","Majors General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in basic laboratory techniques through experiments related to lecture topics in CHEM 1A-CHEM 1B-CHEM M3C. Materials fee.","r corequisite: CHEM M2A. CHEM M2A with a grade of C- or better. High school chemistry. "],"CHEM M2LB":["CHEM","Majors General Chemistry Laboratory","Training and experience in basic laboratory techniques through experiments related to lecture topics in CHEM 1A-CHEM 1B-CHEM M3C. Materials fee.","r corequisite: (CHEM 1B or CHEM H2B or CHEM M2B) and (CHEM M2A or CHEM H2A) and (CHEM M2LA or CHEM H2LA). CHEM 1B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LA with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LA with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M3C":["CHEM","Majors Quantitative Analytical Chemistry","Topics include equilibria, aqueous acid-base equilibria, solubility equilibria, oxidation reduction reactions, electrochemistry, and kinetics with a special emphasis on the statistical treatment of data and analytical methods of chemical analysis.","(CHEM 1B or CHEM H2B or CHEM M2B) and (CHEM M2LB or CHEM H2LB). CHEM 1B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M3LC":["CHEM","Majors Quantitative Analytical Chemistry Laboratory","Foundational principles of analytical chemistry and experimental methods for quantitative analysis of real samples. Materials fee.","(CHEM 1B or CHEM H2B or CHEM M2B) and (CHEM M2LB or CHEM H2LB). CHEM 1B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 5":["CHEM","Scientific Mathematical and Computing Skills","Introduces students to mathematical skills, including complex numbers, linear algebra, differential equations, multivariable calculus, infinite series, Fourier series, and integral transforms; and computing skills, including plotting, data analysis (statistics and curve fitting), linear algebra, symbolic mathematics, and spectral analysis.","r corequisite: (CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M3C or CHEM M2C) and MATH 2D. CHEM 1C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M3C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2C with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 11":["CHEM","New Chemistry Student Seminar","Seminar for students who recently joined the chemistry major. Addresses available tracks in the major, research opportunities in the chemistry department, careers in chemistry, and relevant programs and resources for students.",""],"CHEM 12":["CHEM","Chemistry Around Us","Addresses ways in which chemistry affects everyday life. Topics include pollution, global warming, water supply\/demands, biodiesel fuels, foods we eat, natural\/synthetic materials, common drugs, drug design. Learn and apply basic chemistry concepts. Use risk\/benefit analysis for optimal solutions.",""],"CHEM 14":["CHEM","Sense and Sensibility in Science","Gives an overview of scientific methods and heuristics through group exercises and discussion. Discusses the benefits and limitations of applying rational scientific approaches to real-world examples from philosophy, cognitive and social psychology, game theory, economics, political science, law, and negotiation.",""],"CHEM 51A":["CHEM","Organic Chemistry","Fundamental concepts relating to carbon compounds with emphasis on structural theory and the nature of chemical bonding, stereochemistry, reaction mechanisms, and stereoscopic, physical, and chemical properties of the principal classes of carbon compounds.","r corequisite: (CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M2C or CHEM M3C) and (CHEM 1LD or CHEM H2LB or CHEM M2LB). CHEM 1C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M3C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LD with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 51B":["CHEM","Organic Chemistry","Fundamental concepts relating to carbon compounds with emphasis on structural theory and the nature of chemical bonding, stereochemistry, reaction mechanisms, and stereoscopic, physical, and chemical properties of the principal classes of carbon compounds.","CHEM 51A and (CHEM 1LD or CHEM M52LA or CHEM H52LA). CHEM 51A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LD with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M52LA with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H52LA with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 51C":["CHEM","Organic Chemistry","Fundamental concepts relating to carbon compounds with emphasis on structural theory and the nature of chemical bonding, stereochemistry, reaction mechanisms, and stereoscopic, physical, and chemical properties of the principal classes of carbon compounds.","CHEM 51B and (CHEM 51LB or CHEM M52LB or CHEM H52LB). CHEM 51B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 51LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M52LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H52LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 51LB":["CHEM","Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of organic chemistry, using selected experiments to illustrate topics introduced in CHEM 51A-CHEM 51B-CHEM 51C. Materials fee.","CHEM 51A and (CHEM 1LD or CHEM H2LB or CHEM M2LB). CHEM 51A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LD with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 51LC":["CHEM","Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of organic chemistry, using selected experiments to illustrate topics introduced in CHEM 51A-B-C. Materials fee.","CHEM 51B and CHEM 51LB. CHEM 51B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 51LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 51LD":["CHEM","Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of organic chemistry using selected experiments to illustrate topics introduced in CHEM 51A-CHEM 51B-CHEM 51C. Materials fee.","CHEM 51C and CHEM 51LC. CHEM 51C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 51LC with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM H52LA":["CHEM","Honors Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Fundamental techniques of modern experimental organic chemistry. Materials fee.","(CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M2C or CHEM M3C) and (CHEM M2LB or CHEM H2LB or CHEM 1LD). CHEM 1C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M3C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LD with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM H52LB":["CHEM","Honors Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Fundamental techniques of modern experimental organic chemistry. Materials fee.","CHEM 51A and CHEM H52LA. CHEM 51A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H52LA with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM H52LC":["CHEM","Honors Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Fundamental techniques of modern experimental organic chemistry. Materials fee.","CHEM 51B and CHEM H52LB. CHEM 51B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H52LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M52LA":["CHEM","Majors Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of organic chemistry, using selected experiments to illustrate topics introduced in CHEM 51A-B-C. Materials fee.","(CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M2C or CHEM M3C) and (CHEM H2LB or CHEM M2LB or CHEM 1LD). CHEM 1C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M3C with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M2LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM 1LD with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M52LB":["CHEM","Majors Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of organic chemistry, using selected experiments to illustrate topics introduced in CHEM 51A-B-C. Materials fee.","CHEM 51A and CHEM M52LA. CHEM 51A with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M52LA with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM M52LC":["CHEM","Majors Organic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of organic chemistry, using selected experiments to illustrate topics introduced in CHEM 51A-B-C. Materials fee.","CHEM 51B and (CHEM M52LB or CHEM H52LB). CHEM 51B with a grade of C- or better. CHEM M52LB with a grade of C- or better. CHEM H52LB with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM H90":["CHEM","The Idiom and Practice of Science","A series of fundamental and applied problems in the chemical sciences are addressed. Topics may include the periodic table, electronic structure of atoms, chemical bonding, molecular structure, thermodynamics, and kinetics, with applications to energy and the environment, and\/or biochemistry.",""],"CHEM 100":["CHEM","Special Topics in Chemistry","Devoted to current topics in the advanced fields of chemical sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","(CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C) and (CHEM M3C or CHEM M2C or CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C)"],"CHEM 100S":["CHEM","Laboratory Safety for Chemists","Provide students with the fundamentals of safety involved in chemical laboratory work.","r corequisite: CHEM 51C"],"CHEM 101W":["CHEM","Writing in Chemical Sciences","Students receive guidance on preparing research papers, proposals, reports, and other forms of scientific writing in chemistry-related fields, on effectively searching for and using chemical information, and on communicating data in poster and platform presentations.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHEM 107":["CHEM","Inorganic Chemistry","Introduction to modern inorganic chemistry. Principles of structure, bonding, and chemical reactivity with application to compounds of the main group and transition elements, including organometallic chemistry.","CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C"],"CHEM 107L":["CHEM","Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory","Modern techniques of inorganic and organometallic chemistry, including experience with glove box, Schlenk line, and vacuum line methods. Materials fee.","r corequisite: CHEM 107 and CHEM 100S"],"CHEM 125":["CHEM","Advanced Organic Chemistry","Rapid-paced comprehensive treatment of organic chemistry.  Focuses  on molecular structure, reactivity, stability, scope and mechanisms of organic reactions. Topics include: structure and bonding; theoretical organic chemistry; acidity and basicity; reactive intermediates; pericyclic reactions; stereochemistry; organic synthesis; natural products; organic photochemistry.","CHEM 51C"],"CHEM 127":["CHEM","Inorganic Chemistry II","Advanced treatment of selected fundamental topics in inorganic chemistry, building on material presented in Chemistry 107. Molecular symmetry with applications to electronic structure and spectroscopy.  Reaction kinetics and mechanisms; inorganic synthesis and catalysis; bioinorganic chemistry.","CHEM 107"],"CHEM 128":["CHEM","Introduction to Chemical Biology","Introduction to the basic principles of chemical biology: structures and reactivity; chemical mechanisms of enzyme catalysis; chemistry of signalling, biosynthesis, and metabolic pathways.","(CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C)"],"CHEM 128L":["CHEM","Introduction to Chemical Biology Laboratory Techniques","Introduction to the basic laboratory techniques of chemical biology: electrophoresis, plasmid preparation, PCR, protein expression, isolation, and kinetics. Materials fee.",""],"CHEM 132A":["CHEM","Chemical Thermodynamics, Kinetics, and Dynamics","Energy, entropy, and the thermodynamic potentials. Chemical equilibrium. Chemical kinetics.","r corequisite: MATH 2D and (PHYS 7D or PHYS 7E) and (CHEM 5 or (MATH 3D and (EECS 10 or EECS 12 or MAE 10 or ICS 31)) )"],"CHEM 132B":["CHEM","Quantum Principles, Spectroscopy, and Bonding","Principles of quantum chemistry with applications to the elements of atomic structure, energy levels, and spectroscopy.","(CHEM 132A or CBE 40C) and (PHYS 7D or PHYS 7E). CHEM 132A with a grade of C- or better"],"CHEM 132C":["CHEM","Molecular Structure and Elementary Statistical Mechanics","Principles of quantum mechanics with applications to molecular spectroscopy and structure determination, and chemical bonding in simple molecules. Elements of statistical mechanics.","CHEM 132B"],"CHEM 133":["CHEM","Nuclear and Radiochemistry","Advanced treatment of nuclear structure, nuclear reactions, and radioactive-decay processes. Introduction to nuclear activation analysis, isotope effects, radiation chemistry, hot-atom chemistry, nuclear age-dating methods, nuclear reactors, and nuclear power.","(CHEM M3C or CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M2C) and MATH 2D"],"CHEM 133L":["CHEM","Nuclear and Radiochemistry Laboratory","Practical aspects of production, separation, safe handling, detection, and measurement of radioactive isotopes. Experiments use the UCI nuclear reactor and emphasize uses of radioisotopes in chemistry, engineering, biology, and medicine.  Materials fee.","r corequisite: CHEM 133"],"CHEM 138":["CHEM","Introduction to Computational Organic Chemistry","An introduction to the use of computational chemistry to investigate reaction mechanisms, to calculate structures, and to predict properties of molecules. Students have the opportunity to perform calculations employing computational methods which are widely used in various fields of chemistry. Materials fee.","CHEM 51C"],"CHEM 141":["CHEM","Environmental Chemistry","Processes that control the fate of chemicals in the environment. Chemistry of the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and soils, especially as it pertains to pollutants.","(CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C) and (MATH 2B or AP Calculus BC). AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"CHEM 145A":["CHEM","Gas-Phase Atmospheric Chemistry","Sources, chemistry, sinks, and measurements of key atmospheric gaseous species. Chemistry of photochemical oxidant formation, transformation of key inorganic and organic trace gases, and stratospheric ozone cycling. Applications of atmospheric chemistry models to control strategies.","CHEM 132A and CHEM 132B and CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 145B":["CHEM","Multi-Phase Atmospheric Chemistry","Chemical and physical processes leading to the production, aging, and removal of atmospheric particles. Multi-phase processes involving gases, particles, water droplets, and environmental surfaces. Approaches for modeling these processes with applications to control strategies.","CHEM 145A"],"CHEM 150":["CHEM","Computational Chemistry","Basic concepts, methods, and techniques in computational chemistry: density functional and wavefunction theory, molecular property calculations, analysis tools, potential energy surfaces, vibrational effects, molecular dynamics simulations.","r corequisite: MATH 3A and (CHEM 132A or PHYS 113A)"],"CHEM 150L":["CHEM","Computational Chemistry Laboratory","Introduction to the practice of modern computational chemistry through a series of advanced computational experiments.","CHEM 150 and (CHEM 5 or PHYS 50 or EECS 12)"],"CHEM 152":["CHEM","Advanced Analytical Chemistry","In-depth treatment of modern instrumental methods for quantitative analysis of real samples and basic principles of instrument design. Laboratory experiments using spectroscopic, chromatographic, mass spectrometric, and other instrumental methods. Materials fee.","(CHEM 1C or CHEM M3C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M2C) and (CHEM M3LC or CHEM H2LC)"],"CHEM 153":["CHEM","Physical Chemistry Laboratory","Introduction to the modern experimental approaches and software tools used in spectroscopy, kinetics, electrochemistry, and other physical chemistry experiments. Basics of interfacing with instruments using LabView. Materials fee.",""],"CHEM 156":["CHEM","Advanced Laboratory in Chemistry and Synthesis of Materials","Modern synthesis and characterization of organic and inorganic materials including polymers, nanomaterials, and biomaterials. State-of-the-art characterization techniques include gel permeation chromatography, dynamic light scattering, thermal analysis, mechanical analysis, electron and scanning probe microscopy, X-ray diffraction, and porosimetry. Materials fee.","(CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C) and (CHEM 51LC or CHEM H52LC or CHEM M52LC) and (CHEM 131A or CHEM 132B or PHMS 171)"],"CHEM 160":["CHEM","Organic Synthesis Laboratory","Modern experimental techniques in organic synthesis including experience with thin-layer chromatography, liquid chromatography, and gas chromatography. Modern methods of structure elucidation including FT NMR are employed in the characterization of products. Materials fee.","r corequisite: CHEM 51C and CHEM 100S and (CHEM 51LC or CHEM H52LC or CHEM M52LC)"],"CHEM 177":["CHEM","Medicinal Chemistry","An introduction of the basics of drug activity and mechanisms. Strategies used to identify lead compounds such as natural product chemistry, combinatorial chemistry, molecular modeling, and high-through put screening.  Relationship of molecular structure to pharmacological activity.","CHEM 51A and CHEM 51B and CHEM 51C and (BIOL 98 or CHEM 128)"],"CHEM 177L":["CHEM","Medicinal Chemistry Laboratory","An introduction of the basics of drug activity and mechanisms. Strategies used to identify lead compounds such as natural product chemistry, combinatorial chemistry, molecular modeling, and high-through put screening.  Relationship of molecular structure to pharmacological activity. Materials fee.","CHEM 51A and CHEM 51B and CHEM 51C and BIOL 100 and (BIOL 98 or CHEM 128)"],"CHEM 180":["CHEM","Undergraduate Research","Research for credit arranged with a faculty member to sponsor and supervise work. Student time commitment of 10 to 15 hours per week is expected, and a written research report is required at the end of each quarter.","r corequisite: CHEM 100S"],"CHEM 180W":["CHEM","Senior Thesis in Chemistry","Students receive guidance on preparing research papers, proposals, reports, and other forms of scientific writing in chemistry-related fields; on effectively searching for and using chemical information; and on communicating data in poster and platform presentations.","CHEM 180 or CHEM 199 or PHYS 195 or ESS 199 or CEMS 199 or CEE 199 or MAE 199 or BIOL 199 or PUBH 199. CHEM 180 with a grade of A or better. CHEM 199 with a grade of A or better. PHYS 195 with a grade of A or better. ESS 199 with a grade of A or better. CEMS 199 with a grade of A or better. CEE 199 with a grade of A or better. MAE 199 with a grade of A or better. BIOL 199 with a grade of A or better. PUBH 199 with a grade of A or better. Consent of the instructor is also accepted. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHEM H180A":["CHEM","Honors Research in Chemistry","Undergraduate honors research in Chemistry. A student time commitment of 10-15 hours per week is required.",""],"CHEM H180B":["CHEM","Honors Research in Chemistry","Undergraduate honors research in Chemistry. A student time commitment of 10-15 hours per week is required.","CHEM H180A"],"CHEM H180C":["CHEM","Honors Research in Chemistry","Undergraduate honors research in Chemistry.  A student time committment of 10-15 hours per week is required.","CHEM H180B"],"CHEM H181W":["CHEM","Honors Seminar in Chemistry","Students will receive guidance in the preparation of oral and written research presentations.  A written thesis will be prepared and a formal research seminar will be presented.","CHEM H180A and CHEM H180B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHEM 192":["CHEM","Tutoring in Chemistry","Enrollment limited to participants in the Chemistry Peer Tutoring Program.",""],"CHEM 193":["CHEM","Research Methods","Explores tools of inquiry for developing and implementing science research projects.  Students undertake independent projects requiring data collection, analysis, and modeling, and the organization and presentation of results.  Additional topics include ethical issues and role of scientific literature.","BIOL 14 or PS 5"],"CHEM 197":["CHEM","Professional Internship","Internship program that provides students with opportunity to develop professional skills necessary for competitive placement in their chosen chemical-inspired industry. Students gain new and field-specific skills outside the classroom while participating in a supervised internship.","Enrollment requires completion of an application form. Student selection is made by a selection committee. "],"CHEM 199":["CHEM","Independent Study in Chemistry","Independent research with Chemistry faculty.  Student time commitment of three to four hours per week per unit is expected, and a written report on the independent study is required at the end of each quarter of enrollment.",""],"CHEM 200":["CHEM","Conduct of Research  ","Introduces new graduate students to ethical conduct of scientific research, mentoring, and current research in the Department of chemistry.",""],"CHEM 201":["CHEM","Organic Reaction Mechanisms I","Advanced treatment of basic mechanistic principles of modern organic chemistry. Topics include molecular orbital theory, orbital symmetry control of organic reactions, aromaticity, carbonium ion chemistry, free radical chemistry, the chemistry of carbenes and carbanions, photochemistry, electrophilic substitutions, aromatic chemistry.","CHEM 132A and CHEM 132B and CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 202":["CHEM","Organic Reaction Mechanisms II","Topics include more in-depth treatment of mechanistic concepts, kinetics, conformational analysis, computational methods, stereoelectronics, and both solution and enzymatic catalysis.","CHEM 201"],"CHEM 203":["CHEM","Organic Spectroscopy","Modern methods used in structure determination of organic molecules. Topics include mass spectrometry; ultraviolet, chiroptical, infrared, and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy.","(CHEM 51A and CHEM 51B and CHEM 51C) or (CHEM H52A and CHEM H52B and CHEM H52C)"],"CHEM 204":["CHEM","Organic Synthesis I","Fundamentals of modern synthetic organic chemistry is developed. Major emphasis is on carbon-carbon bond forming methodology. Topics include carbonyl annelations, cycloadditions, sigmatropic rearrangements, and organometallic methods.",""],"CHEM 205":["CHEM","Organic Synthesis II","Fundamentals of modern synthetic organic chemistry will be developed. Major emphasis this quarter is on natural product total synthesis and retrosynthetic (antithetic) analysis.","CHEM 204"],"CHEM 206":["CHEM","Advanced Data Acquisition and Analysis","Introduces students to a variety of practical laboratory techniques, including lock-in, boxcar, coincidence counting, noise filtering, PID control, properties of common transducers, computer interfacing to instruments, vacuum technology, laboratory safety, basic mechanical design, and shop skills. Materials fee.",""],"CHEM 207":["CHEM","Applied Physical Chemistry","Introduction to fundamental concepts in molecular structure and reactivity: theory of bonding, valence and molecular orbitals; structure and reactivity in inorganic chemistry; elements in molecular group theory; nomenclature in organic chemistry; and survey of macromolecules.",""],"CHEM 208":["CHEM","Math Methods","Applications of mathematics to physical and chemical problems. Calculus of special functions, complex variables and vectors; linear vector spaces and eigenvalue problems. Differential equations.",""],"CHEM 213":["CHEM","Chemical Kinetics","Surveys gas phase and organic reaction mechanisms and their relationship to kinetic rate laws; treats the basic theory of elementary reaction rates.  A brief presentation of modern cross-sectional kinetics is included.","CHEM 132A and CHEM 132B and CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 215":["CHEM","Inorganic Chemistry I","Principles of modern inorganic chemistry with applications to chemical systems of current interest. Inorganic phenomena are organized into general patterns which rationalize observed structures, stabilities, and physical properties.","CHEM 107 and CHEM 132A and CHEM 132B and CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 216":["CHEM","Organometallic Chemistry","Synthesis and reactivity of organometallic complexes with an emphasis on mechanisms. Topics include bonding and fluxional properties; metal-carbon single and multiple bonds; metal s-complexes. Applications to homogenous catalysis and organic synthesis are incorporated throughout the course.","CHEM 107 or CHEM 215"],"CHEM 217":["CHEM","Physical Inorganic Chemistry","General principles of the spectroscopy and magnetism of inorganic compounds. Characterization of inorganic complexes by infrared, near-infrared, visible, ultraviolet, NMR, EPR, EXAFS, and Mossbauer spectroscopies. Some necessary group theory developed.","CHEM 215"],"CHEM 218":["CHEM","Metallobiochemistry ","A review of the biochemistry of metallic elements emphasizing: methods for studying metals in biological systems; the chemical basis for nature's exploitation of specific elements; structures of active sites; mechanisms; solid-state structures and devices; metals in medicine.","r corequisite: CHEM 131C or CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 219":["CHEM","Chemical and Structural Biology","A survey of the organic chemistry underlying biological function. Introduction to chemical genetics, receptor-ligand interactions, small molecule agonists and antagonists, combinatorial synthesis, high throughput assays, molecular evolution, protein and small molecule design.",""],"CHEM 221A":["CHEM","Fundamentals of Molecular Biophysics","An overview of the principles and concepts in molecular biophysics.  Topics covered include energy and entropy in biology, non-equilibrium reaction kinetics, random walks and molecular diffusion, molecular forces in biology.","Undergraduate courses in physical chemistry and biochemistry."],"CHEM 223":["CHEM","Biological Macromolecules","Introduction to nucleic acid and protein structure, dynamics, and function. Topics include analytical methods, molecular evolution, folding, and catalysis.",""],"CHEM 224":["CHEM","Molecular and Cellular Biophotonics","Principles underlying the application of photonic technologies to biomolecular and cellular systems. Sample technologies Optical Tweezers, Linear and Nonlinear Optical Microscopy and Fluorescence Lifetime and Correlation Methods, and their use to investigate emergent problems in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology.",""],"CHEM 225":["CHEM","Polymer Chemistry:  Synthesis and Characterization of Polymers","Structure of synthetic and natural polymers.  Survey of modern polymer synthetic methods.  Molecular weight and molecular weight distribution.  Chain conformation and stereochemistry. Introduction to polymer characterization, chain models, and solution behavior.","Undergraduate courses in organic and physical chemistry."],"CHEM 228":["CHEM","Electromagnetism","Maxwell's equations, electrodynamics, electromagnetic waves and radiation, wave propagation in media, interference and quantum optics, coherent and incoherent radiation, with practical applications in interferometry, lasers, waveguides, and optical instrumentation.",""],"CHEM 229A":["CHEM","Computational Methods","Mathematical and numerical analysis using Mathematica and C programming, as applied to problems in physical science.",""],"CHEM 230":["CHEM","Classical Mechanics and Electromagnetic Theory","Fundamentals of classical mechanics and electromagnetic theory are developed with specific application to molecular systems. Newtonian, Lagrangian, and Hamiltonian mechanics are developed. Boundary value problems in electrostatics are investigated. Multipole expansion and macroscopic media are discussed from a molecular viewpoint.","CHEM 132A and CHEM 132B and CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 231A":["CHEM","Fundamentals of Quantum Mechanics","The postulates of quantum mechanics are discussed and applied to a variety of model problems.","CHEM 131A and CHEM 131B and CHEM 131C"],"CHEM 231B":["CHEM","Applications of Quantum Mechanics","Approximate methods for solving atomic and molecular structure problems are developed, and the application of quantum mechanics to spectroscopy is introduced.","CHEM 231A"],"CHEM 231C":["CHEM","Molecular Spectroscopy","Theory and techniques of spectroscopy as used for the study of molecular and condensed phase properties. Coherent time domain spectroscopies are covered.","CHEM 231B"],"CHEM 232A":["CHEM","Thermodynamics and Introduction to Statistical Mechanics","A detailed discussion from an advanced point of view of the principles of classical thermodynamics. The fundamentals of statistical mechanics. Topics include an introduction to ensemble theory, Boltzmann statistics, classical statistical mechanics, and the statistical mechanics of ideal gas systems.","CHEM 131A and CHEM 131B and CHEM 131C"],"CHEM 232B":["CHEM","Advanced Topics in Statistical Mechanics","Continued discussion of the principles of statistical mechanics. Applications to topics of chemical interest including imperfect gases, liquids, solutions, and crystals. Modern techniques such as the use of autocorrelation function methods.","CHEM 232A"],"CHEM 232C":["CHEM","Non-Equilibrium Statistical Mechanics","Phenomenology of material processes, including: kinetic theories of transport and continuum, linear response theory, critical phenomena of phase transition, self-assembly, and nucleation.",""],"CHEM 233":["CHEM","Nuclear and Radiochemistry","Advanced treatment of nuclear structure, nuclear reactions, and radioactive-decay processes. Introduction to nuclear activation analysis, isotope effects, radiation chemistry, hot-atom chemistry, nuclear age-dating methods, nuclear reactors, and nuclear power.",""],"CHEM 237":["CHEM","Mathematical Methods in Chemistry","Survey of essential math methods in chemistry. Topics may include series and limits, complex analysis, Fourier and Laplace transforms, linear algebra and operators (theory and algorithms), differential equations, and probability concepts for stochastic processes.",""],"CHEM 241":["CHEM","Current Issues Related to Air Quality, Climate, and Energy","Current issues related to the atmosphere, climate, and air quality in the context of energy conversion and sustainability. Topics include transportation systems; building design; impacts on humans and ecosystems; modeling and meteorology; economics; and application to public policies.","MAE 261 or CHEM 245 or ESS 240"],"CHEM 243":["CHEM","Advanced Instrumental Analysis","Theory and applications of modern advanced instrumental methods of analysis. Includes data acquisition, storage, retrieval, and analysis; Fourier transform methods; vacuum technologies; magnetic sector; quadrupole and ion trap mass spectrometry; surface science spectroscopic methods; lasers and optics.","CHEM 152 and CHEM 132C. CHEM 152 with a grade of B or better. CHEM 132C with a grade of B or better"],"CHEM 244":["CHEM","Detection and Measurement of Radiation","Basic principles of detection and measurement of ionizing radiation; both theory and practical aspects of measurement techniques for alpha, beta, gamma, and neutron radiation, properties of different detector materials, electronics and data treatments, and analysis.","CHEM 233 or CBE 276"],"CHEM 245A":["CHEM","Gas-Phase Atmospheric Chemistry","Sources, chemistry, sinks, and measurements of key atmospheric gaseous species. Chemistry of photochemical oxidant formation, transformation of key inorganic and organic trace gases, and stratospheric ozone cycling. Applications of atmospheric chemistry models to control strategies.","CHEM 132A and CHEM 132B and CHEM 132C"],"CHEM 245B":["CHEM","Multi-Phase Atmospheric Chemistry","Chemical and physical processes leading to the production, aging, and removal of atmospheric particles. Multi-phase processes involving gases, particles, water droplets, and environmental surfaces. Approaches for modeling these processes with applications to control strategies.","CHEM 245A"],"CHEM 245C":["CHEM","Special Topics in Atmospheric Chemistry","The subjects covered vary from year to year.","CHEM 245B"],"CHEM 246":["CHEM","Separations and Chromatography","Introduction to modern separation techniques such as gas chromatography, high-performance liquid chromatography, supercritical fluid chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, and field flow fractionation. Applications of these separation strategies are discussed.",""],"CHEM 247":["CHEM","Current Problems in Analytical Chemistry","Surveys current research challenges in analytical chemistry. Topics include electrochemistry, chromatography, spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry.",""],"CHEM 248":["CHEM","Electrochemistry","Fundamentals of electrochemistry including thermodynamics and the electrochemical potential, charge transfer kinetics, and mass transfer. Methods based on controlled potential and controlled current are described; the effects of slow heterogeneous kinetics and the perturbation caused by homogeneous chemistry are discussed.",""],"CHEM 249":["CHEM","Analytical Spectroscopy","Advanced treatment of spectroscopic techniques and instrumentation. Atomic and molecular absorption, emission, and scattering processes and their application to quantitative chemical analysis are outlined. Puts different spectroscopic techniques in perspective and demonstrates most appropriate applications to analytical problems.",""],"CHEM 250":["CHEM","Computational Chemistry","Basic concepts, methods, and techniques in computational chemistry: density functional and wavefunction theory, molecular property calculations, analysis tools, potential energy surfaces, vibrational effects, molecular dynamics simulations.",""],"CHEM 250L":["CHEM","Computational Chemistry Laboratory","Introduction to the practice of modern computational chemistry through a series of advanced computational experiments.","CHEM 250"],"CHEM 251":["CHEM","Special Topics in Organic Chemistry","Advanced topics in organic chemistry.",""],"CHEM 252":["CHEM","Special Topics in Physical Chemistry","Advanced topics in physical chemistry. Materials fee.",""],"CHEM 254":["CHEM","Special Topics in Computational and Theoretical Chemistry","Subjects covered vary from year to year.",""],"CHEM 263":["CHEM","Materials Chemistry ","An introduction to crystalline solids, descriptive crystal chemistry, solid-state synthesis and characterization techniques, x-ray and electron diffraction, phase diagrams, electronic band structure of extended solids, semi conductors, and nanoscale inorganic materials.",""],"CHEM 264":["CHEM","Analytical Methods for Organic Nanomaterials","Fundamentals of analytical techniques related to measuring the structure and dynamics of organic nanomaterials. Topics include transmission electron microscopy, cryo-electron microscopy, liquid phase electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy, light scattering, small angle X-ray, and neutron scattering.",""],"CHEM 266":["CHEM","Current Topics in Chemical, Applied, and Materials Physics","The subjects covered vary from year to year.  Connection between fundamental principles and implementations in practice in science, industry, and technology.",""],"CHEM 267":["CHEM","Photochemistry","Photochemical and photovoltaic processes in molecules and semiconductors; quantum mechanics; statistical thermodynamics; kinetics; and experimental techniques relevant to photon absorption and emission; photochemical charge separation, recombination, and transport of electrons and ions; and interfacial redox chemistry.",""],"CHEM 268":["CHEM","NMR Spectroscopy     ","Students learn the theoretical basis of solid-state or solution NMR (alternate times), including the basics of pulse sequence design. Extensive literature reading is required.","CHEM 231A"],"CHEM 273":["CHEM","Technical Communication Skills","Development of effective communication skills, oral and written presentations, through examples and practice.",""],"CHEM 280":["CHEM","Research","Supervised original research toward the preparation of a Ph.D dissertation or M.S. thesis.",""],"CHEM 290":["CHEM","Seminar","Weekly seminars and discussions on general and varied topics of current interest in chemistry.",""],"CHEM 291":["CHEM","Research Seminar","Detailed discussion of research problems of current interest in the Department. Format, content, and frequency of the course are variable.",""],"CHEM 292":["CHEM","Graduate Symposium","Students present public seminars on literature-based research topics in contemporary chemistry.  Topics to be chosen by student and approved by instructor.",""],"CHEM 299":["CHEM","Independent Study","Independent research with Chemistry faculty.",""],"CHEM 399":["CHEM","University Teaching","Required of and limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"CHC\/LAT 61":["CHC\/LAT","Introduction to Chicano\/Latino Studies I","An introduction to the study of the historical foundations of the Chicano\/Latino experience.  Addresses such topics as empire, migration, immigrant settlement, economic integration, race, gender, and the formation of group identities.",""],"CHC\/LAT 62":["CHC\/LAT","Introduction to Chicano\/Latino Studies II","Provides an introduction to the arts, literature, and culture of Chicano\/Latino communities. Analyzes representations of and cultural production in Chicano\/Latino communities through such media as folklore, literature, art, film, architecture, dance theatre, performance, music, poetry, mass media, and language.",""],"CHC\/LAT 63":["CHC\/LAT","Introduction to Chicano\/Latino Studies III","Examines contemporary public policy issues in Chicano\/Latino communities. Each offering addresses at least three of the following themes: migration, immigrant incorporation, identity construction, language policy, health policy, politics, sexuality, gender, labor, class, and education.",""],"CHC\/LAT 64":["CHC\/LAT","Introduction to Race and Ethnicity in Political Science","Examines major theories that attempt to explain the roles of race and ethnicity in U.S. politics.",""],"CHC\/LAT 65":["CHC\/LAT","Ethnic and Immigrant America","Focusing on Asian, Latino, and Black immigrant groups, examines the second generation's experience of straddling two cultures and growing up American. Covers topics such as assimilation, bilingualism, race relations, education, bicultural conflicts, interracial marriage, and multiracial identities.",""],"CHC\/LAT H80":["CHC\/LAT","Latina\/o Childhoods: Comparative Approaches to the Study of Children and Youth","Students in this seminar compare the experiences of Latina\/o children to other young people in the U.S. and around the world, analyzing the historical, political, economic, and sociocultural factors that have differently structured the life stage we understand as \"childhood.\".",""],"CHC\/LAT 101":["CHC\/LAT","Research in the Latino Community"," Students engage in firsthand research in the local Orange County environment. Students identify a research problem, conduct a literature review, develop questions and\/or hypotheses, appropriate methods, and write a proposal.","Two courses from CHC\/LAT 61 or CHC\/LAT 62 or CHC\/LAT 63 and two courses from CHC\/LAT 110-189."],"CHC\/LAT 102W":["CHC\/LAT","Chicano\/Latino Research Seminar","Taught as a writing and research seminar in Chicano\/Latino Studies.  Student develops own project; engages in peer editing; drafts, writes, and presents paper at Spring research conference.  Prior course work in Chicano\/Latino Studies helpful, i.e., CHC\/LAT 61, 62, 63.","CHC\/LAT 101. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 110":["CHC\/LAT","Topics in Chicano Literature and Culture","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Taught in English.",""],"CHC\/LAT 118":["CHC\/LAT","Anthropology of Food","Examines how food communicates ideas about ethnocentrism, disgust, privilege, gender, race, labor, social identities and hierarchies, globalization, power, and the \"Western diet\" and its health consequences.",""],"CHC\/LAT 120":["CHC\/LAT","Peoples and Cultures of Latin America","Surveys the prehistory of Latin America and its indigenous cultures, emphasizing the impact of colonial rule, capitalism, and 20th-century transformations.  Emphasis on communities from several countries. In some years, emphasis on comparisons between the Latin American and Caribbean experiences.",""],"CHC\/LAT 121":["CHC\/LAT","Latina\/Latino Pop:  Latina\/Latino Popular Culture","With a focus on the politics of language and space\/place, prepares students to critically analyze sites of Latina\/Latino popular culture including: music, film, performance, sports, media, and varied subcultures.",""],"CHC\/LAT 123":["CHC\/LAT","Immigration, Nation, and Media","Examines media shapes and reflects public opinion on immigration and its representation of immigrants, citizens, and ideas about the nation, and who belongs and who is a potential threat; as well as the relationship between scholars and journalists.",""],"CHC\/LAT 124W":["CHC\/LAT","Immigrant Emotionality","Explores the emotional universe created by the Latin American immigrant experience, and guides students in the creation of a literary work based on an investigation into, or reflection on that experience.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 129":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Literature, Arts, Media, Culture","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CHC\/LAT 131":["CHC\/LAT","Histories of Chicana\/o\/x and Latina\/o\/x Struggles for Civil Rights, 1960-1980","Provides students with an opportunity to learn more about the historical, political, and social underpinnings that oriented the civil rights struggles of mid-to-late 20th-century Chicana\/o\/x and Latina\/o\/x activists.",""],"CHC\/LAT 132B":["CHC\/LAT","Chicana\/Chicano History: Twentieth Century","Examines social history of the Southwest with emphasis on Mexican-origin people. Discusses major questions, theory and research methods pertinent to Chicana\/Chicano history. Themes explored include: immigration, xenophobia, class struggle, leadership, generational cohorts, unionization, education, barrioization, ethnicity, patriarchy, sexuality.",""],"CHC\/LAT 133":["CHC\/LAT","Interdisciplinary Legacies","Students learn from the institutional histories and scholarship of the Chicano\/Latino Studies faculty emeriti who founded the Department and contributed to its scholarly presence and impact.",""],"CHC\/LAT 134":["CHC\/LAT","U","Focuses on aspects of literature, art, cultural production, and history of the multifaceted Latino cultures that have developed within the United States.  Focuses on one group, such as Caribbean Americans, Chicanos, Central Americans, or a comparative perspective of several groups.",""],"CHC\/LAT 135":["CHC\/LAT","Latinas in the Twentieth Century U","Latinas in the U.S. from 1900 to present, offering a diversity of their cultures, regional histories, sexualities, generations, and classes.",""],"CHC\/LAT 139":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Chicano\/Latino History","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino History. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CHC\/LAT 146":["CHC\/LAT","Latinx Racial Formations","Students explore the meanings attributed to Latina\/o\/x racial identities over time; the political, economic, and social structures that have shaped those identities; and their impact on Latinx self-concepts, interpersonal\/intra-community relations, and life chances.",""],"CHC\/LAT 147":["CHC\/LAT","Comparative Minority Politics","Examines the political experiences of Blacks, Latinos, and Asian Americans in the United States from roughly 1950 to the present. Focuses on how each group has pursued political empowerment via both conventional political channels and social movements.",""],"CHC\/LAT 148":["CHC\/LAT","Racial and Ethnic Relations in the United States","Examines central questions and issues in the field of race and ethnicity; the emergence, maintenance, and consequences of the ethnic and racial stratification system in the United States; the future of racial and ethnic relations; and relevant public policy issues.",""],"CHC\/LAT 148W":["CHC\/LAT","Racial and Ethnic Relations in the United States","Examines central questions and issues in the field of race and ethnicity; the emergence, maintenance, and consequences of the ethnic and racial stratification system in the United States; the future of racial and ethnic relations; and relevant public policy issues.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 150":["CHC\/LAT","U","Explores political, economic, social, and cultural ties that bind Latin America to the United States. Focuses on U.S. intervention and Latin American response from early nineteenth century to present day. Case studies include Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, Chile, and Central America.",""],"CHC\/LAT 150A":["CHC\/LAT","Sex and Conquest in Latin America","Competing ideas of masculinity and femininity, sexual violence, sexual identities, and gendered hierarchies informed how the Spanish engaged in military and religious domination of Mexican and Andean communities, as well as the forms of native resistance throughout colonial Latin America.",""],"CHC\/LAT 151":["CHC\/LAT","Latinos in U","Comparing the political issues facing Latino groups by examining their migration histories, voting behavior, nonelectoral participation, and policy issues.  Latino issues are examined on the national, state, and local levels, including formal representation, immigration, affirmative action, and language policy.",""],"CHC\/LAT 151B":["CHC\/LAT","Revolution in Latin America","Presents a comparative analysis of the causes, development, and consequences of selected revolutionary movements, focusing on outbreaks in Mexico, Bolivia, Cuba, Chile, Nicaragua, and Grenada.  Explores topics of state formation, economic nationalism, social justice, ethnicity, and role of international affairs.",""],"CHC\/LAT 152A":["CHC\/LAT","Race, Ethnicity, and Social Control","Provides a historical and sociological survey of racial and ethnic group relations in contexts of crime control, emphasizing the roles of racial ideology, structural racism, and social movements in shaping these dynamic relations, and their significance to American liberal democracy.",""],"CHC\/LAT 152B":["CHC\/LAT","Community, Social Justice, and Health Equity Research for Action","Focuses on community as a unit of identity, community, well-being, and social justice perspectives and initiatives to promote community health. Addresses community change and improvements in community well-being, with a focus on health equity research for action.","PUBHLTH 1 or PUBHLTH 2 or CHC\/LAT 61 or CHC\/LAT 62 or CHC\/LAT 63"],"CHC\/LAT 154":["CHC\/LAT","Latino Metropolis","Explores the processes of Latino urbanization in the United States and the spatialization of Latino identities, particularly in the context of Southern California with selected comparisons drawing from other cities.",""],"CHC\/LAT 155":["CHC\/LAT","Culture Change and the Mexican People","Reviews culture contact and colonization, innovation diffusion, acculturation, assimilation, culture conflict and marginality, modernization, urbanization, legal transformations. Mexico and the Southwestern U.S. are reviewed through several centuries to better appreciate the indigenous base of the Mexican people.",""],"CHC\/LAT 156W":["CHC\/LAT","Chicano\/Latinos and Labor","Explores theories that explain the occupational pathways and workplace experiences of Latinos in various work sectors. Investigates jobs such as migrant labor, child street vendors, Latina\/Latino professionals, and Latinos migrating to the U.S. South that work in poultry processing plants.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 157":["CHC\/LAT","Cuban Society and Revolution","Explores the causes, development, and legacy of the 1959 Revolution. Themes include economic dependency, democracy, race, gender, culture, and the always volatile relations between Cuba and the United States.",""],"CHC\/LAT 158":["CHC\/LAT","Feminisms of Color","Surveys the development of Chicana feminist thought and practice.  Focuses on historical contemporary writings by and about Chicana feminists.  Draws from interdisciplinary scholarship in order to survey the diversity of Chicana feminisms.",""],"CHC\/LAT 158B":["CHC\/LAT","Gender and Ethnicity: Chicana\/Latina Feminisms in the US","Focuses on the Latina Feminist Group and testimonios to examine the historical development of Chicana\/Latinx feminist thought and practice. Draws from interdisciplinary scholarship to survey the diversity of contemporary Chicana\/Latinx feminisms through an intersectionality lens.",""],"CHC\/LAT 159":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Society, Labor, Politics, Law, Gender, Race, Ethnicity","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CHC\/LAT 161":["CHC\/LAT","Transnational Migration","Examines the movement of people across national borders, governmentality and the role of state practices to control populations, and issues of citizenship, belonging, and identity. Examples are drawn from the United States, Europe, Latin America, Asia, and Africa.",""],"CHC\/LAT 161A":["CHC\/LAT","Transnational Central America","Offers an overview of the history of Central America and its diasporas, as well as the struggles, accomplishments, and activism, art and cultural expressions of Central Americans in the United States.",""],"CHC\/LAT 162A":["CHC\/LAT","Urban America        ","Students examine the historical, social, political, and economic factors that contributed to the construction of the American urban context, one that is poverty concentrated and racially\/ethnically segregated. Students also critically assess the consequence of growing up in America's urban neighborhoods.",""],"CHC\/LAT 163":["CHC\/LAT","U","Examines selected immigration policy debates since the nineteenth century, rationale and consequences of immigration law since 1965, problems of administration, implementation and enforcement, impact of immigration policy on foreign relations, and contemporary debate regarding the future of U.S. policy.",""],"CHC\/LAT 164A":["CHC\/LAT","Undocumented Immigrant Experiences","Examines the experiences of undocumented immigrants and the policies that structure their educational, economic, social, and political participation.",""],"CHC\/LAT 166":["CHC\/LAT","Chicano Movement","Explores the history of Mexicans in the U.S. with particular attention paid to their integration into the U.S. capitalist economy.  Examines this economic history and the Chicano movement, \"El Movimiento,\" within the wide context of socio-economic change.",""],"CHC\/LAT 167":["CHC\/LAT","Latinos in a Global Society","Examines interconnections between diverse Latino groups in the U.S. and the effects of globalization on their social, cultural, and political realities. Topics include immigration, demographics, socioeconomic differentiation, familial relations, political protest\/resistance, law and policy, and links to \"homeland\" issues.",""],"CHC\/LAT 168":["CHC\/LAT","Chicano\/Latino Social Psychology","Examines theories, research, and major issues of relevance to understanding social psychological processes in Chicano\/Latino populations. Topics include social development, cultural orientations, gender and sexuality, close relationships, happiness and well-being, stereotyping, prejudice and discrimination, and mental and physical health.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 169":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Globalization, Transnationalism, Immigration, U","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CHC\/LAT 170":["CHC\/LAT","Chicano\/Latino Families","Introduction to the research, literature, and issues surrounding the topic of Chicano\/Latino families including cultural history, contemporary issues, organization of family, traditions, lifestyles, values, beliefs, generational differences, gender issues, ethnic identity, evolution of demographic patterns, current economic and political standings.",""],"CHC\/LAT 176":["CHC\/LAT","Race, Gender, and Science","Perfect for pre-health, science, and social science majors wanting to appreciate how science and society interact. Race and gender as biological and socio-cultural constructs are examined. Questions explored: What is disease? What is science? What are social and biological differences.",""],"CHC\/LAT 178":["CHC\/LAT","Health and the Latino Paradox","Examines research and theories concerning the physical and mental health of U.S. Latino populations. Contemporary accounts, health care implications, and new directions for understanding sources of risks and resilience for health in Latino populations are evaluated and discussed.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 178A":["CHC\/LAT","Medical Anthropology","Introduces students to cross-cultural perspectives and critical theories in anthropological studies of medicine. Special attention is given to diverse ways of understanding bodies, illnesses, and therapeutic practices in our changing world.",""],"CHC\/LAT 179":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Health, Medicine, and Psychosocial Dynamics","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"CHC\/LAT 181":["CHC\/LAT","Chicanx\/Latinx Education","Provides a historical and empirical overview of educational issues affecting diverse Latinx low-income, immigrant, and U.S. born student populations enrolled in American schools. Examines policies and issues such as DACA, generation, culture, racism, and gender on educational mobility.",""],"CHC\/LAT 183":["CHC\/LAT","Multicultural Education in K-12 Schools","Provides a theoretical and empirical overview of educational issues affecting low-income immigrant and U.S. born minority student populations in an increasingly diverse and changing society.",""],"CHC\/LAT 189":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Educational Policy and Issues","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"CHC\/LAT H190A":["CHC\/LAT","Honors Research Preparation","Students write a proposal describing their research question, the relevant background literature, and the method of data collection and analysis.  Field work for the project may begin this quarter.",""],"CHC\/LAT H190B":["CHC\/LAT","Honors Field Research","Students begin or continue their research for their senior honors thesis.","CHC\/LAT H190A"],"CHC\/LAT H190C":["CHC\/LAT","Honors Thesis","Student drafts a senior honor thesis (typically) with the following sections:  problem statement, literature review, description of the methods, results, and conclusions.","CHC\/LAT H190A and CHC\/LAT H190B"],"CHC\/LAT H190W":["CHC\/LAT","Honors Thesis","Student drafts a senior honor thesis (typically) with the following sections:  problem statement, literature review, description of the methods, results, and conclusions.","CHC\/LAT H190A and CHC\/LAT H190B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CHC\/LAT 198":["CHC\/LAT","Directed Group Study","Directed study with Chicano\/Latino faculty.",""],"CHC\/LAT 199":["CHC\/LAT","Independent Study","Independent research with Chicano\/Latino faculty.",""],"CHC\/LAT 200A":["CHC\/LAT","Theoretical Issues in Chicano\/Latino Research","Introduction to theoretical issues in the scholarship in Chicano\/Latino Studies. Theories from social sciences, humanities, critical theory. Topics: immigration, identity, gender and sexuality, globalization, transnationalism, social, political, and economic integration, race theory, labor market participation, social history, cultural productions.",""],"CHC\/LAT 210A":["CHC\/LAT","Cultural and Historial Precedents for Latinos and Medical Care","Introduction to the history of Latinos, focusing on relevant pre-Columbian, colonial, and modern social and cultural developments, including issues of race, gender, sexuality, religious beliefs, and health beliefs and practices.",""],"CHC\/LAT 210B":["CHC\/LAT","Cultural and Historical Precedents for Latinos and Medical Care","Introduction to the history of Latinos, focusing on relevant pre-Columbian, colonial, and modern social and cultural developments, including issues of race, gender, sexuality, religious beliefs, and health beliefs and practices.","CHC\/LAT 210A"],"CHC\/LAT 211A":["CHC\/LAT","Latinos\/Latinas and Medical Care: Contemporary Issues","Introduction to medical anthropological and social science perspectives on Latinos\/Latinas in relation to a number of health and medically-related issues, i.e., immigration, gender, reproduction, culture, social structure, political economy, sexuality, utilization of medical services, and health beliefs.",""],"CHC\/LAT 211B":["CHC\/LAT","Latinos\/Latinas and Medical Care: Contemporary Issues","Introduction to medical anthropological and social science perspectives on Latinos\/Latinas in relation to a number of health and medically-related issues, i.e., immigration, gender, reproduction, culture, social structure, political economy, sexuality, utilization of medical services, and health beliefs.","CHC\/LAT 211A"],"CHC\/LAT 215":["CHC\/LAT","Transnational Migration","Examines borders and boundaries as material and semiotic constructs. Drawing upon an array of literatures, but loosely situated in U.S. geo\/biopolitics, explores transformative troublings of places, spaces, borders, and bodies of all sorts.",""],"CHC\/LAT 217":["CHC\/LAT","Ethnography","Explores the theory and practice of ethnography with a focus on anthropology, the discipline most associated with ethnography. Students are exposed to the theoretical underpinnings of ethnographic work, traditional and innovative practices, and sample ethnographies.",""],"CHC\/LAT 222":["CHC\/LAT","Theorizing Illegality and the Experiences of Undocumented Immigrants","Examines theories of illegality and citizenship, historical and contemporary undocumented immigrant experiences, and methodological concerns in this area of study.",""],"CHC\/LAT 223":["CHC\/LAT","Ethnic America","Examines critically the meaning and measurement of ethnicity, race, and nation in sociological theory and research. Theories of ethnicity are explored, along with empirical studies of the construction of ethnic and pan-ethnic identities in historical and contemporary contexts.",""],"CHC\/LAT 224":["CHC\/LAT","Immigrant America","The study of the causes and consequences of international migration has become one of the most vital fields of sociological theory and research. Examines principal theoretical perspectives and empirical research on contemporary immigration flows and the processes of incorporation.",""],"CHC\/LAT 225":["CHC\/LAT","Crimmigration","Examines the criminalization of immigration, with an emphasis on U.S. enforcement procedures and outcomes. Analyzes the devolution of federal immigration law to local authorities, the rise in immigrant detention and deportation, and the militarization of the U.S.-Mexico border.",""],"CHC\/LAT 251":["CHC\/LAT","Models of Practice and Intervention at the Community Level","Examines and critiques current models, frameworks, theories for.","CHC\/LAT 200A or PUBHLTH 246"],"CHC\/LAT 289":["CHC\/LAT","Special Topics in Chicano\/Latino Studies","Current research in Chicano\/Latino Studies.",""],"CHC\/LAT 290":["CHC\/LAT","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Chicano\/Latino faculty.",""],"CHC\/LAT 299":["CHC\/LAT","Independent Study","Independent study with Chicano\/Latino Studies faculty.",""],"CHINESE 1A":["CHINESE","Fundamental Mandarin Chinese","Natural approach emphasizing four fundamental skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Specifically designed for students with no previous experience in any dialect of Chinese. Conducted in Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of Romanization, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","Placement into CHINESE 1A is also accepted."],"CHINESE 1B":["CHINESE","Fundamental Mandarin Chinese","Natural approach emphasizing four fundamental skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Specifically designed for students with no previous experience in any dialect of Chinese. Conducted in Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of Romanization, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","CHINESE 1A. CHINESE 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 1B is also accepted."],"CHINESE 1C":["CHINESE","Fundamental Mandarin Chinese","Natural approach emphasizing four fundamental skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Specifically designed for students with no previous experience in any dialect of Chinese. Conducted in Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of Romanization, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","CHINESE 1B or CHINESE S1AB. CHINESE 1B with a grade of C or better. CHINESE S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 1C is also accepted."],"CHINESE 1MA":["CHINESE","Fundamentals of Mandarin Chinese - Mandarin Background Track","Natural approach emphasizing four fundamental skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Specifically designed for students with previous background in Mandarin Chinese.  Conducted in Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of Romanization, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","Placement into CHINESE 1MA."],"CHINESE 1MB":["CHINESE","Fundamentals of Mandarin Chinese - Mandarin Background Track","Natural approach emphasizing four fundamental skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Specifically designed for students with previous background in Mandarin Chinese. Conducted in Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of Romanization, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","CHINESE 1MA. CHINESE 1MA with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 1MB is also accepted. "],"CHINESE 1MC":["CHINESE","Fundamentals of Mandarin Chinese - Mandarin Background Track","Natural approach emphasizing four fundamental skills: listening, speaking, reading and writing. Specifically designed for students with previous background in Mandarin Chinese. Conducted in Mandarin Chinese using the Pinyin system of Romanization, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","CHINESE 1MB. CHINESE 1MB with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 1MC is also accepted."],"CHINESE S1AB":["CHINESE","Fundamentals of Mandarin Chinese","First half of first-year Mandarin Chinese in an intensive setting using natural approach with emphasis on listening, speaking, reading, and writing.","Placement into CHINESE 1A or CHINESE 1B."],"CHINESE S1BC":["CHINESE","Fundamentals of Mandarin Chinese","Second half of first-year Mandarin Chinese in an intensive setting using natural approach with emphasis on listening, speaking, reading, and writing.","CHINESE S1AB or CHINESE 1B. CHINESE S1AB with a grade of C or better. CHINESE 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 1C or CHINESE 1DC or CHINESE 1MC is also accepted."],"CHINESE 2A":["CHINESE","Intermediate Mandarin Chinese","Both authentic and pedagogically-prepared materials are used to further develop students' ability to communicate in culturally, socially, and linguistically appropriate manners. Taught in Chinese using Pinyin romanization system and both traditional and simplified forms of Chinese.","CHINESE 1C or CHINESE S1BC or CHINESE 1MC. CHINESE 1C with a grade of C or better. CHINESE S1BC with a grade of C or better. CHINESE 1MC with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 2A is also accepted."],"CHINESE 2B":["CHINESE","Intermediate Mandarin Chinese","Both authentic and pedagogically-prepared materials are used to further develop students' ability to communicate in culturally, socially, and linguistically appropriate manners. Taught in Chinese using Pinyin romanization system and both traditional and simplified forms of Chinese.","CHINESE 2A. CHINESE 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 2B is also accepted."],"CHINESE 2C":["CHINESE","Intermediate Mandarin Chinese","Both authentic and pedagogically-prepared materials are used to further develop students' ability to communicate in culturally, socially, and linguistically appropriate manners. Taught in Chinese using Pinyin romanization system and both traditional and simplified forms of Chinese.","CHINESE 2B. CHINESE 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 2C is also accepted."],"CHINESE 2MA":["CHINESE","Intermediate Mandarin Chinese - Mandarin Background Track","Authentic and pedagogically prepared materials are used to further develop communication in culturally, socially, and linguistically appropriate manners for students with initial experience in Mandarin Chinese. Conducted in Mandarin using the Pinyin Romanization system, traditional and simplified Chinese characters.","CHINESE 1MC or CHINESE S1BC. CHINESE 1MC with a grade of C or better. CHINESE S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 2MA is also accepted."],"CHINESE 3A":["CHINESE","Advanced Mandarin Chinese","A continuation of CHINESE 2A-CHINESE 2B-CHINESE 2C emphasizing conceptualization, self-expression and academic skills in Chinese. Authentic texts from modern Chinese prose and newspapers are used. Taught in Mandarin Chinese using both traditional and simplified forms of Chinese characters.","CHINESE 2C or CHINESE 2DC or CHINESE 2MC. CHINESE 2C with a grade of C or better. CHINESE 2DC with a grade of C or better. CHINESE 2MC with a grade of C or better. Placement into CHINESE 3A is also accepted."],"CHINESE 3B":["CHINESE","Advanced Mandarin Chinese","A continuation of CHINESE 2A-CHINESE 2B-CHINESE 2C emphasizing conceptualization, self-expression, and academic skills in Chinese. Authentic texts from modern Chinese prose and newspapers are used. Taught in Mandarin Chinese using both traditional and simplified forms of Chinese characters.","CHINESE 3A. CHINESE 3A with a grade of C or better"],"CHINESE 3C":["CHINESE","Advanced Mandarin Chinese","A continuation of CHINESE 2A-CHINESE 2B-CHINESE 2C emphasizing conceptualization, self-expression, and academic skills in Chinese. Authentic texts from modern Chinese prose and newspapers are used. Taught in Mandarin Chinese using both traditional and simplified forms of Chinese characters.","CHINESE 3B. CHINESE 3B with a grade of C or better"],"CHINESE 10":["CHINESE","Peer Tutoring Program ","Tutoring Program in which advanced Chinese students provide assistance to students at a lower level. One hour of tutoring per week.",""],"CHINESE 40":["CHINESE","Topics in Professional Chinese","Designed for students with native or near native fluency in Chinese. Develops students' language learning to professional levels with cultural and contextual knowledge and with formal communication and presentation skills.","CHINESE 3C. CHINESE 3C with a grade of C or better. Native speakers also accepted."],"CHINESE 100A":["CHINESE","Classical Chinese","Introduction to classical Chinese grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on reading basic texts.","CHINESE 3C or JAPANSE 3C or KOREAN 3C"],"CHINESE 100B":["CHINESE","Classical Chinese","Introduction to classical Chinese grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on reading basic texts.","CHINESE 3C or JAPANSE 3C or KOREAN 3C"],"CHINESE 100C":["CHINESE","Classical Chinese","Introduction to classical Chinese grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on reading basic texts.","CHINESE 3C or JAPANSE 3C or KOREAN 3C"],"CHINESE 115":["CHINESE","Topics in Chinese Literature: Advanced Texts","Designed for students with near-fluency in reading Chinese. Readings may include both literary and philosophical work by important writers, but the emphasis is on literary texts and writings that interpret those texts.",""],"CHINESE 199":["CHINESE","Independent Study","Investigation of special topics through directed reading in Chinese. Paper required.",""],"CHINESE 201":["CHINESE","Readings in Traditional Chinese Narrative and Prose","Close reading of selected premodern prose texts such as historical narratives, novels, short stories, and essays.","CHINESE 101C"],"CHINESE 202":["CHINESE","Readings in Traditional Chinese Poetry","Close readings of selected premodern poetic texts.","CHINESE 100C"],"CHINESE 203":["CHINESE","Readings in Modern Chinese Literature","Close readings of selected modern literary texts.","CHINESE 101C"],"CHINESE 204":["CHINESE","Readings in Chinese Literary and Cultural Theory","Close readings of selected texts in premodern criticism and theory.","CHINESE 100C"],"CHINESE 211A":["CHINESE","Studies in Traditional Chinese Narrative and Prose","Two-quarter seminar in traditional Chinese narrative and prose, with topics varying from year to year.","CHINESE 100C"],"CHINESE 211B":["CHINESE","Studies in Traditional Chinese Narrative and Prose","Two-quarter seminar in traditional Chinese narrative and prose, with topics varying from year to year.","CHINESE 211A"],"CHINESE 212A":["CHINESE","Studies in Traditional Chinese Poetry","Two-quarter seminar in traditional Chinese poetry, with topics varying from year to year.","CHINESE 100C"],"CHINESE 212B":["CHINESE","Studies in Traditional Chinese Poetry","Two-quarter seminar in traditional Chinese poetry, with topics varying from year to year.","CHINESE 212A"],"CHINESE 213A":["CHINESE"," Studies in Modern Chinese Literature","Two-quarter seminar in modern Chinese literature, with topics varying from year to year. Research paper required.","CHINESE 100C"],"CHINESE 213B":["CHINESE","Studies in Modern Chinese Literature","Two-quarter seminar in modern Chinese literature, with topics varying from year to year. Research paper required.","CHINESE 213A"],"CHINESE 214":["CHINESE","Studies in Chinese Literature and Cultural Theory","Seminar in Chinese literature and cultural theory, with topics varying from year to year. Research paper required.","CHINESE 100C or CHINESE 101C"],"CHINESE 230":["CHINESE","Topics in Chinese Literature and Culture","Seminar in Chinese literature and culture, with topics varying from year to year. Research paper required.","CHINESE 100C or CHINESE 101A"],"CHINESE 290":["CHINESE","Independent Study","Directed research on topic determined in consultation with faculty member. A term paper or project is required.",""],"CHINESE 299":["CHINESE","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Chinese faculty.","Advancement to Ph.D. candidacy."],"ENGRCEE 11":["ENGRCEE","Methods II: Probability and Statistics","Modeling and analysis of engineering problems under uncertainty. Engineering applications of probability and statistical concepts and methods.","(ENGRCEE 20 or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or ENGRMAE 10 or I&C SCI 31) and MATH 3A"],"ENGRCEE 20":["ENGRCEE","Introduction to Computational Problem Solving","Introduction to computer programming within a numerical computing environment (MATLAB or similar) including types of data representation, graphical display of data, and development of modular programs with application to engineering analysis and problem solving.",""],"ENGRCEE 21":["ENGRCEE","Computational Problem Solving","Engineering analysis and problem solving using MATLAB (or similar), including matrix algebra, solving systems of linear and nonlinear equations, numerical integration of ordinary differential equations (ODEs) and coupled ODEs, and analysis of numerical errors.","(ENGRCEE 20 or BME 60B) and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N)"],"ENGRCEE 30":["ENGRCEE","Statics","Addition and resolution of forces, distributed forces, equivalent system of forces centroids, first moments, moments and products on inertia, equilibrium of rigid bodies, trusses, beams, cables.  Course may be offered online.","MATH 2D and PHYSICS 7C"],"ENGRCEE 40":["ENGRCEE","Fundamentals of Economic Analysis for Scientists and Engineers","Introduction to microeconomics and cost benefit analysis. Integration of economic, social, and behavioral considerations into the engineering design process. Applications to contemporary problems via case studies.",""],"ENGRCEE 60":["ENGRCEE","Contemporary and Emerging Environmental Challenges","Introduces contemporary and emerging environmental challenges, illustrates links between human behavior, environmental policy, and engineering practices, examines policy options in the context of current institutions, and introduces tools and frameworks to reach sound economic, social, and environmental solutions.",""],"ENGRCEE 80":["ENGRCEE","Dynamics","Introduction to the kinematics and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. The Newton-Euler, Work\/Energy, and Impulse\/Momentum methods are explored for ascertaining the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. An engineering design problem using these fundamental principles is also undertaken.","MATH 2D and PHYSICS 7C"],"ENGRCEE 81A":["ENGRCEE","Civil Engineering Practicum I","Introduction to civil engineering through presentations on structural, environmental, water, and transportation systems. Introduction to graphics. Graphical visualization and communication using hand and computer sketching. Fundamentals of Computer Aided Design (CAD) using AutoCad. Laboratory sessions. Materials fee.",""],"ENGRCEE 81B":["ENGRCEE","Civil Engineering Practicum II","Principles of surveying; fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems (GIS); introduction to the state-of-the-art and future areas of the profession, including applications of advanced technology and computers; Introduction to visualization and communication of design concepts; laboratory sessions.  Materials fee.",""],"ENGRCEE 110":["ENGRCEE","Methods III:  Modeling, Economics, and Management","Analysis, modeling, and management of civil engineering systems. Statistics and system performance studies, probabilistic models and simulation, basic economics and capital investments, project elements and organization, managerial concepts and network technique, project scheduling. Emphasis on real-world examples. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRCEE 11"],"ENGRCEE 111":["ENGRCEE","Methods IV: Systems Analysis and Decision-Making","Analysis and optimization for decision-making in civil and infrastructural systems. Topics include linear programming formulations and solution algorithms, network models, and logistical models. Emphasis is on project-level and managerial decision-making and selection from alternative designs.","(MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N) and MATH 3D"],"ENGRCEE 114":["ENGRCEE","GIS for Civil and Environmental Engineering","GIS for CEE provides an introduction to Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and their various applications in civil and environmental engineering. Topics include GIS data formats, data queries, spatial and attribute data, spatial data analysis, coordinate systems, and raster data analysis.",""],"ENGRCEE 121":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems I: Analysis and Design","Introduction to analysis and design of fundamental transportation system components, basic elements of geometric and pavement design, vehicle flow and elementary traffic, basic foundations of transportation planning and forecasting. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRCEE 11 and ENGRCEE 81A"],"ENGRCEE 122":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems II: Operations and Control","Introduction to fundamentals of urban traffic engineering, including data collection, analysis, and design. Traffic engineering studies, traffic flow theory, traffic control devices, traffic signals, capacity and level of service analysis of freeways and urban streets. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRCEE 11 and ENGRCEE 121"],"ENGRCEE 123":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems III: Planning and Forecasting","Theoretical foundations of transportation planning, design, and analysis methods. Theory and application of aggregate and disaggregate models for land use development, trip generation, destination, mode, and route choice. Transportation network analysis. Planning, design, and evaluation of system alternatives.","ENGRCEE 121"],"ENGRCEE 124":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems IV: Freeway Operations and Control","Fundamentals of traffic on urban freeways, including data collection analysis, and design. Traffic engineering studies, traffic flow theory, freeway traffic control devices, capacity, and level of service analysis of freeways and highways. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRCEE 121"],"ENGRCEE 125":["ENGRCEE","Transportation and the Environment","Analysis of the impacts of motor vehicle transportation on the environment. Introduction to life cycle analysis applied to transportation. Basic economic tools for transportation externalities. Transportation planning, urban form, health, and the environment. Transportation sustainability.",""],"ENGRCEE 130":["ENGRCEE","Soil Mechanics","Mechanics of soils, composition and classification of soils, compaction, compressibility and consolidation, shear strength, seepage, bearing capacity, lateral earth pressure, retaining walls, piles.","ENGRCEE 150 and ENGRCEE 170"],"ENGRCEE 130L":["ENGRCEE","Soil Mechanics Laboratory","Laboratory procedures of soil testing for engineering problems.  Materials fee.",""],"ENGRCEE 149":["ENGRCEE","Introduction to Earthquake Engineering","Nature of earthquakes, hazard analyses, structural dynamics for earthquake engineering, seismic design force determination methods: ELF, modal response spectrum, nonlinear time history analyses. Diaphragm analyses, redundancy, nonlinear response, ductile systems, hysteretic behavior. Basics of seismic design for steel, timber, concrete.","ENGRCEE 11 and (ENGRCEE 20 or BME 60B) and ENGRCEE 151A"],"ENGRCEE 150":["ENGRCEE","Mechanics of Materials","Stresses and strains, strain-stress diagrams, axial deformations, torsion, bending and shear stresses in beams, shear force and bending moment diagrams, combined stresses, principal stresses, Mohr's circle, deflection of beams, columns.","ENGRCEE 30 or ENGRMAE 30 or ENGR 30. ENGRCEE 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGRMAE 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGR 30 with a grade of C- or better"],"ENGRCEE 150L":["ENGRCEE","Mechanics of Materials Laboratory","Experimental methods and fundamentals for mechanics of materials analysis.  Materials fee.","r corequisite: (ENGRCEE 30 or ENGRMAE 30 or ENGR 30) and ENGRCEE 150. ENGRCEE 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGRMAE 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGR 30 with a grade of C- or better"],"ENGRCEE 151A":["ENGRCEE","Structural Analysis","Fundamentals of structural analysis and loading. Deformation of statically determinate and indeterminate structures. Influence lines. Structural systems.","ENGRCEE 150 or ENGRMAE 150"],"ENGRCEE 151B":["ENGRCEE","Structural Timber Design","Design of timber structures. Beams, columns, beam-columns, roof, and connections.","ENGRCEE 151A"],"ENGRCEE 151C":["ENGRCEE","Reinforced Concrete Design","Ultimate strength design. Design of reinforced concrete beam sections. Design for shear and deflection. Design of columns. Design of isolated and combined footings. Laboratory sessions.   Materials fee.","ENGRCEE 151A"],"ENGRCEE 152":["ENGRCEE","Computer Methods in Structural Analysis and Design","Matrix techniques for indeterminate framed structures. Computer implementation using the stiffness method. Software packages for design of reinforced concrete, steel, and\/or timber structures.","ENGRCEE 151C"],"ENGRCEE 155":["ENGRCEE","Structural Steel Design","Design in steel of tension members, beams, columns, welded and bolted connections; eccentrically loaded and moment resistant joints; plate girders. Plastic design; load and resistance factor design. Composite construction; introduction to computer-aided design.","ENGRCEE 151A"],"ENGRCEE 156":["ENGRCEE","Foundation Design","Applications of soil mechanics principles to the analysis and design of shallow foundations, retaining walls, pile foundations, and braced cuts. Design criteria: bearing capacity, working loads and tolerable settlements, structural integrity of the foundation element. Damage from construction operations.","ENGRCEE 130 and ENGRCEE 151C"],"ENGRCEE 160":["ENGRCEE","Environmental Processes","Introduction to environmental processes in air and water, mass balances, and transport phenomena. Fundamentals of water-quality engineering including water and wastewater treatment.","(CHEM 1B or CHEM H2B) and ENGRCEE 170"],"ENGRCEE 162":["ENGRCEE","Introduction to Environmental Chemistry","Basic concepts from general, physical, and analytical chemistry as they relate to environmental engineering. Particular emphasis on the fundamentals of equilibrium and kinetics as they apply to acid-base chemistry, gas solubility, and redox reactions. Laboratory sessions.  Materials fee.","(ENGR 1A or CHEM 1A or CHEM H2A) and (CHEM 1B or CHEM H2B) and (CHEM 1LC or CHEM 1LE or CHEM H2LB or CHEM M2LB) and (CHEM 51A or CHEM H52A)"],"ENGRCEE 163":["ENGRCEE","Wastewater Treatment Process Design","Design of biological treatment processes. Topics include attached and suspended growth, aeration, anaerobic systems, process control, and economics. Design projects included.   Materials fee.","ENGRCEE 160"],"ENGRCEE 164":["ENGRCEE","Carbon and Energy Footprint Analysis","Process design for wastewater treatment. Mass- and energy-balance analysis applied to water and wastewater treatment systems. Case studies include analysis of water supply, treatment, reclamation, and reuse.","ENGRCEE 163 or ENGRCEE 165"],"ENGRCEE 165":["ENGRCEE","Physical-Chemical Treatment Processes","Theory and dynamics of physical and chemical separation processes in water and wastewater treatment. Topics include coagulation, sedimentation, filtration, gas-transfer, membrane separations, and adsorption.","ENGRCEE 160 and (ENGRMAE 91 or CBE 40C)"],"ENGRCEE 169":["ENGRCEE","Environmental Microbiology for Engineers","Fundamental and applied principles of microbiology. Structures and functions of microorganisms, the microbiology of water, wastewater and soil used in environmental engineering, and the impact of microorganisms on human and environmental health.","ENGRCEE 160"],"ENGRCEE 170":["ENGRCEE","Introduction to Fluid Mechanics","Thermodynamic and mechanical fluid properties; fluid statics; control volume and differential approaches for mass, momentum, and energy; dimensional analysis and similarity.","PHYSICS 7C"],"ENGRCEE 171":["ENGRCEE","Water Resources Engineering","Principles governing the analysis and design of water resource systems including pressurized pipelines, pipe networks, channels, and ground water. Coverage of fluid mass, momentum and energy conservation, flow resistance, and related laboratory measurements in different systems. Materials fee.","ENGRCEE 170"],"ENGRCEE 172":["ENGRCEE","Groundwater Hydrology","Topics include conservation of fluid mass, storage properties of porous media, matrix compressibility, boundary conditions, flow nets, well hydraulics, groundwater chemistry, and solute transport. Design projects and computer applications included.","ENGRCEE 170 or ENGRMAE 130A or CBE 120A"],"ENGRCEE 173":["ENGRCEE","Watershed Modeling","Basic principles of hydrologic modeling are practiced. Concepts of watershed delineation, land use change impact, design studies, and GIS tools are discussed. Focus on the USACE (HEC) software tools (HEC-HMS, and HEC-RAS) along with their associated GIS interfaces.","ENGRCEE 170 and ENGRCEE 176"],"ENGRCEE 176":["ENGRCEE","Hydrology","Elements of the hydrologic cycle including precipitation, infiltration, evapotranspiration, ground water, and runoff. Unit Hydrograph theory and routing methods. Introduction to precipitation\/runoff relationship and watershed modeling. Statistical methods and flood frequency analysis.","ENGRCEE 170 or ENGRMAE 130A"],"ENGRCEE 178":["ENGRCEE","Fluid Mechanics of Open Channels","Fundamentals of fluid motion in open channels. Navier-Stokes equations and one-dimensional momentum and energy principles. Topics include rapidly varied flow, flow resistance and turbulence, gradually varied flow, unsteady flow, and computational methods for channel flow modeling.","(ENGRCEE 20 or BME 60B or ENGRMAE 10) and (ENGRCEE 170 or ENGRMAE 130A or CBE 120A)"],"ENGRCEE 181A":["ENGRCEE","Senior Design Practicum I","Team designs land development project including infrastructural, environmental, circulation aspects. Focus on traffic impact studies, design of roads, geometry, signals, geotechnical and hydrological analysis, design of structural elements, economic analysis. Oral\/Written interim and final design reports. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRCEE 81A and ENGRCEE 81B and ENGRCEE 110 and (ENGRCEE 121 or ENGRCEE 151C or ENGRCEE 162 or ENGRCEE 171). ENGRCEE 181A and ENGRCEE 181B and ENGRCEE 181C must be taken in the same academic year."],"ENGRCEE 181B":["ENGRCEE","Senior Design Practicum II","Team designs land development project including infrastructural, environmental, circulation aspects. Focus on traffic impact studies, design of roads, geometry, signals, geotechnical and hydrological analysis, design of structural elements, economic analysis. Oral\/Written interim and final design reports. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRENGRCEE 181A. CEE 181A and ENGRCEE 181B and ENGRCEE 181C must be taken in the same academic year."],"ENGRCEE 181C":["ENGRCEE","Senior Design Practicum III","Team designs land development project including infrastructural, environmental, circulation aspects. Focus on traffic impact studies, design of roads, geometry, signals, geotechnical and hydrological analysis, design of structural elements, economic analysis. Oral\/Written interim and final design reports. Laboratory sessions.","ENGRENGRCEE 181B. ENGRCEE 181A and CEE 181B and ENGRCEE 181C must be taken in the same academic year."],"ENGRCEE 195":["ENGRCEE","Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Civil and Environmental Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ENGRCEE 198":["ENGRCEE","Group Study","Group study of selected topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering.",""],"ENGRCEE 199":["ENGRCEE","Individual Study","For undergraduate Engineering majors in supervised but independent reading, research, or design. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGRCEE 199P":["ENGRCEE","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGRCEE 214":["ENGRCEE","GIS for Civil and Environmental Engineering","GIS for CEE provides an introduction to Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and their various applications in civil and environmental engineering. Topics include GIS data formats, data queries, spatial and attribute data, spatial data analysis, coordinate systems, raster data analysis.",""],"ENGRCEE 220A":["ENGRCEE","Travel Demand Analysis I","Fundamentals of transportation systems analysis. Theoretical aspects of travel demand. Travel behavior. Modeling of performance characteristics and costs of transportation modes. In-depth presentation of travel demand modeling techniques. Development of travel choice models including mode, route, and destination choice. Equilibrium.",""],"ENGRCEE 220B":["ENGRCEE","Travel Demand Analysis II","Methods of discrete choice analysis and their applications in the modeling of transportation systems. Emphasis on the development of a sound understanding of theoretical aspects of discrete choice modeling that are useful in many applications in travel demand analysis.","ENGRCEE 220A"],"ENGRCEE 220C":["ENGRCEE","Travel Demand Analysis III: Activity-based Approaches","The methodological underpinnings of activity-based travel demand modeling.  Presents methodologies within the context of a generalization of discrete choice modeling approaches, emphasizing the distinctions that separtate these two approaches and presenting appropriate mathematical and statistical tools to address these distinctions.","ENGRCEE 220A"],"ENGRCEE 221A":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems Analysis I","Introduction to mathematical methods and models to address logistics and urban transportation problems. Techniques include stochastic models, queueing theory, linear programming, and introductory non-linear optimization.",""],"ENGRCEE 221B":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems Analysis II","Advanced mathematical methods and models to address logistics and urban transportation problems. Topics include network flows, advanced optimization techniques, network models, and heuristic algorithms.","ENGRCEE 221A"],"ENGRCEE 222":["ENGRCEE","Transit Systems Planning","Planning methods for public transportation in urban areas. Technological and operating characteristics of vehicles, facilities, and systems.  Short-range planning techniques: data collection and analysis, demand analysis, mode choice, operational strategies, financial analysis.  Design of systems to improve performance.",""],"ENGRCEE 223":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Systems III: Planning and Forecasting","Theoretical foundations of transportation planning, design, and analysis methods. Theory and application of aggregate and disaggregate models for land use development, trip generation, destination, mode, and route choice. Transportation network analysis. Planning, design, and evaluation of system alternatives.",""],"ENGRCEE 224A":["ENGRCEE","Transportation Data Analysis I","Statistical analysis of transportation data sources. Analysis of categorical and ordinal data. Regression and advanced multivariate analysis methods such as discriminant analysis, canonical correlation, and factor analysis. Sampling techniques, sample error and bias, survey instrument design.",""],"ENGRCEE 226A":["ENGRCEE","Traffic Flow Theory I","Traffic measurement and fundamental speed-density-flow relationships. Kinematic models. Shock waves. Statistical-kinetic theory of traffic. Introductory car-following principles and stability. Gap acceptance. Platoon dispersion.  Two-fluid model. Queueing process. Multi-regime and catastrophe models.  Higher-order continuum models. Microscopic and macroscopic simulation.",""],"ENGRCEE 226B":["ENGRCEE","Traffic Flow Theory II","Advanced mathematical analysis of vehicular flow. Detailed treatise on car-following models. Fourier and Laplace analysis of stability problems. Perturbation analysis. Derivation of macroscopic traffic flow relationships from microscopic considerations. Advanced hydrodynamic theory.","ENGRCEE 226A"],"ENGRCEE 228A":["ENGRCEE","Urban Transportation Networks I","Analytical approaches and algorithms to the formulation and solution of the equilibrium assignment problem for transportation networks. Emphasis on user equilibrium (UE) comparison with system optimal, mathematical programming formulation, supply functions, estimation. Estimating origin-destination matrices, network design problems.","ENGRCEE 220A"],"ENGRCEE 228B":["ENGRCEE","Urban Transportation Networks II","Advanced analysis, optimization, and modeling of transportation networks. Topics include advanced static and dynamic traffic assignment algorithms, linear and nonlinear multi-commodity network flow optimization, network simplex, and network control problems.","ENGRCEE 221A and ENGRCEE 228A"],"ENGRCEE 229A":["ENGRCEE","Traffic Systems Operations and Control I","Introduction to operation, control, and analysis of arterial and freeway traffic systems.  Control concepts, traffic stream principles, detectors, local controllers, system masters, traffic signal and ramp metering timing principles, traffic measurement technologies, traffic delay principles.",""],"ENGRCEE 229B":["ENGRCEE","Traffic Systems Operations and Control II","Advanced topics related to operation, control, and analysis of arterial and freeway traffic systems. Control concepts, traffic stream principles, detectors, local controllers, system masters, traffic signal and ramp metering timing principles.","ENGRCEE 229A"],"ENGRCEE 231":["ENGRCEE","Foundation Engineering","Essentials for design and analysis of structural members that transmit superstructure loads to the ground. Topics include subsurface investigations, excavation, dewatering, bracing, footing, mat foundations, piles and pile foundations, caissons and cofferdams, other special foundations.",""],"ENGRCEE 232":["ENGRCEE","Geotech Earthquake Engineering","In-situ and laboratory determination of dynamic soil properties, liquefaction of soil, cyclic softening of clays, seismic compression and settlement analyses, ground improvement methods, seismic slope stability, introduction to soil structure interaction.",""],"ENGRCEE 240":["ENGRCEE","High Performance Materials","Part I: Linear and nonlinear fracture mechanics, methodology, real-world case studies; Part II: Composite material toughening, underlying micromechanics, materials engineering towards microstructure tailoring and new material design approaches; Part III: Emerging high-performance engineering materials for safety, energy and the environment.",""],"ENGRCEE 242":["ENGRCEE","Advanced Strength of Materials","Beams on elastic foundations. Combined axial and lateral loads. Curved beams. Unsymmetric bending. Shear center. Stresses and strains. Basic equations for theory of elasticity. Energy principles. Theory of torsion. Combined bending and torsion.",""],"ENGRCEE 247":["ENGRCEE","Structural Dynamics","Vibration of discrete and continuous mass elastic systems. Isolation and transmissability. Dynamic recording instruments. Introduction to nonlinear theory of vibration. Response of structures to earthquake, traffic, and wind loads. Response spectra concepts. Normal mode analysis. Numerical integration techniques.",""],"ENGRCEE 249":["ENGRCEE","Earthquake Engineering","Nature of earthquakes, hazard analyses, structural dynamics for earthquake engineering, seismic design force determination methods: ELF, modal response spectrum, nonlinear time history analyses. Diaphragm analyses, redundancy, nonlinear response, ductile systems, hysteretic behavior. Basics of seismic design for steel, timber, concrete.",""],"ENGRCEE 250":["ENGRCEE","Finite Element Method in Structural Engineering","Finite element concepts in structural engineering including variational formulations, shape functions, elements assembly, convergence and computer programming. Stiffness of truss, beam, and frame members, two- and three-dimensional solids, plate and shell elements. Static, vibration, stability, and inelastic analysis.",""],"ENGRCEE 251":["ENGRCEE","Performance-Based Structural Engineering","Introduction and implementation of current approaches in performance-based assessment and design of building structures. Emphasis is on applied and evolving methods and tools for exercising performance-based engineering of building structures.","ENGRCEE 247 and ENGRCEE 249"],"ENGRCEE 252":["ENGRCEE","Multiscale Modeling of Materials and Structures","Introduction to modeling materials and structures across length.",""],"ENGRCEE 253":["ENGRCEE","Micromechanics","Micromechanics concepts in solid mechanics including eigenstrains, Eshelby equivalent inclusion theories, homogenization procedures, Mori-Tanaka method, self-consistent scheme, and effective mechanical behavior of composites.",""],"ENGRCEE 254":["ENGRCEE","Advanced Reinforced Concrete Behavior and Design","Flexural strength of reinforced concrete elements. Flexural ductility of unconfined and confined members with axial loads. Shear and torsional behaviors. Strength of reinforced concrete ductile frames and shear walls. Reinforced concrete detailing.",""],"ENGRCEE 255":["ENGRCEE","Advanced Behavior and Design of Steel Structures","Advanced principles of structural steel design. Analysis and design of beam-column members, braced and unbraced frames for buildings, and plate girders. Review of seismic design provisions. Design of connections.",""],"ENGRCEE 258":["ENGRCEE","Earthquake Resistant Structural Design","Objectives of seismic design. Cyclic load-distortion characteristics of typical structural elements. Desirable structural form. Ductility and methods of achieving it. Use of energy dissipators. Project involving design of multistory, multibay rigid-jointed plane frame.",""],"ENGRCEE 262":["ENGRCEE","Environmental Chemistry II","Advanced concepts from physical and organic chemistry as they relate to environmental engineering. Emphasis on equilibrium and kinetics as they apply to redox reactions, coordination, absorption, gas phase reactions, and ion exchange.",""],"ENGRCEE 263":["ENGRCEE","Advanced Biological Treatment Processes","Analysis of biological processes in natural and engineered systems. Biological treatment processes, both aerobic and anaerobic, with emphasis on suspended growth systems including design consideration. Containment degradation or control covered. Includes laboratory on molecular tools used in wastewater treatment.",""],"ENGRCEE 264":["ENGRCEE","Carbon and Energy Footprint Analysis","Process design for wastewater treatment. Mass- and energy- balance analysis applied to water and wastewater treatment systems. Case studies include analysis of water supply, treatment, reclamation, and reuse.",""],"ENGRCEE 265":["ENGRCEE","Physical-Chemical Treatment Processes","Theory and dynamics of physical and chemical separation processes in water and wastewater treatment. Topics include coagulation, sedimentation, filtration, gas transfer, membrane separations, and absorption.",""],"ENGRCEE 268":["ENGRCEE","Environmental Fluid Mechanics and Turbulence","Covers the nonlinear physics of turbulence flows with a focus on environmental applications.",""],"ENGRCEE 269":["ENGRCEE","Beach Dynamics","Coastal erosion in California, human and natural influences on southern California beaches, and present-day challenges. Littoral cells and sediment budgets. Water wave theory. Littoral sediment transport and shoreline change modeling. Shoreline stabilization using green and gray infrastructure.",""],"ENGRCEE 270":["ENGRCEE","Flood Risk and Modeling","Global and national trends in flooding and related impacts including disasters; flood risk management; theory and numerical methods for flood inundation modeling; flood risk communication strategies including flood hazard visualizations.",""],"ENGRCEE 271":["ENGRCEE","Flow in Unsaturated Porous Media","Fluid flow in the unsaturated zone (zone of aeration) of the subsurface. Soil-water physics, flow in regional groundwater systems, miscible displacement, mathematical modeling techniques.",""],"ENGRCEE 272":["ENGRCEE","Groundwater Hydrology","Topics include conservation of fluid mass, storage properties or porous media, matrix compressibility, boundary conditions, flow nets, well hydraulics, groundwater chemistry, and solute transport. Includes introduction to advanced topics in porous media. Design projects and computer applications included.",""],"ENGRCEE 273":["ENGRCEE","Watershed Modeling","Basic principles of hydrologic modeling are practiced. Concepts of watershed delineation, land use change impact, design studies, and GIS tools are discussed. Focus on the USACE (HEC) software tools (HEC-HMS and HEC-RAS) along with their associated GIS interfaces.",""],"ENGRCEE 274":["ENGRCEE","Climate Data Analysis","Trend analysis; statistical indices for diagnosing and detecting changes in extremes; nonstationary processes; extreme value analysis; multivariate extreme value methods; tail dependence estimation; uncertainties in observed and projected changes in climate extremes.",""],"ENGRCEE 275":["ENGRCEE","Stochastic Hydrology","Statistical analysis and modeling of hydrologic and geophysical data for decision making, frequency analysis of extreme precipitation and floods for hydrologic design, time series analysis for hydrological simulation, spectral analysis, and geostatistical analysis of spatially correlated fields.",""],"ENGRCEE 276":["ENGRCEE","Hydrology","Elements of the hydrologic cycle including precipitation, infiltration, evapotranspiration, ground water, and runoff. Unit Hydrograph theory and routing methods. Introduction to precipitation\/runoff relationship and watershed modeling. Statistical methods and flood frequency analysis. Discussion section covers advanced topics.",""],"ENGRCEE 277":["ENGRCEE","Hydrologic Transport Fundamentals","Process description, mathematical and numerical modeling of transport processes in surface and ground water. Topics include advection, molecular diffusion, Taylor dispersion, mechanical dispersion in porous media, shear flow dispersion in channels, and turbulent jets and plumes.",""],"ENGRCEE 279":["ENGRCEE","Environmental Transport Modeling","Computational modeling of multi-dimensional flow and scalar transport problems in surface and ground water. Topics include mathematical model formulation, numerical method selection, serial and parallel implementation, model verification and validation.",""],"ENGRCEE 281":["ENGRCEE","Structural Reliability","Applications of probability theory to reliability analysis of engineering structures. Theory of structural reliability. Estimation of static random loads. Reliability analysis of structural components and system. Monte Carlo simulation.",""],"ENGRCEE 283":["ENGRCEE","Mathematical Methods in Engineering Analysis","Matrices; vector calculus; eigenvalue problems; Fourier analysis; partial differential equations; special functions; numerical analysis; finite difference method.",""],"ENGRCEE 289":["ENGRCEE","Analysis of Hydrologic Systems","Application of systems theory in hydrologic, land surface, biogeochemical modeling. Design, identification, and calibration of conceptual models. Principles of dynamic systems, modeling approaches, theory of linear systems, mathematical concepts of differential calculus, theoretical concepts of parameter estimation and optimization theory.",""],"ENGRCEE 290":["ENGRCEE","Merging Models and Data","Introduction to optimization and data assimilation methods for model calibration and uncertainty quantification. Local, global and multi-method search. Bayesian analysis using Monte Carlo simulation with Random Walk Metropolis, and adaptive samplers. Filtering methods for recursive inference. Illustration using environmental models.",""],"ENGRCEE 291":["ENGRCEE","Hydrologic Remote Sensing","Introduction to principles of remote sensing and application in hydrology. Review of sensor systems, thermal and multispectral image processing, and image classification. Examples from remote sensing of hydrologic processes such as precipitation, soil moisture, and vegetation are covered.","ENGRCEE 276"],"ENGRCEE 292":["ENGRCEE","Wavelets in Hydrology, Engineering, and Geoscience","Multiscale analysis of hydrologic, engineering, and earth system processes; energy decomposition in the time-frequency domain via wavelets; applications to fluid flows, climate and mechanical signals for feature extraction, trend analysis, coherent structures, and upscaling\/downscaling.",""],"ENGRCEE 295":["ENGRCEE","Seminars in Engineering","Seminars scheduled each year by individual faculty in major field of interest.",""],"ENGRCEE 296":["ENGRCEE","Master of Science Thesis Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation of the thesis required for the M.S. degree in Engineering.",""],"ENGRCEE 297":["ENGRCEE","Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the dissertation required for the Ph.D. degree in Engineering.",""],"ENGRCEE 298":["ENGRCEE","Special Topics in Civil and Environmental Engineering","Presentation of advanced topics and special research areas in civil and environmental engineering.",""],"ENGRCEE 299":["ENGRCEE","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"CLASSIC 10":["CLASSIC","Scientific and Specialized Terminology","A study of English terms derived from Greek and Latin and important to contemporary medicine, science, and other professions, with emphasis on development of word-building skills. No prior knowledge of Greek or Latin required.",""],"CLASSIC 36A":["CLASSIC","The Formation of Ancient Greek Society: Early Greece","A survey of ancient Greek civilization from its origins in the Bronze Age to the mid-Archaic period. Examines political and social history, as well as literature, art, religion, and archaeological remains.",""],"CLASSIC 36B":["CLASSIC","The Formation of Ancient Greek Society:  Late Archaic and Classical Greece","A survey of ancient Greek civilization from the Late Archaic period to the Classical period. Focuses on major institutions and cultural phenomena as seen through the study of ancient Greek literature, history, archaeology, and religion.",""],"CLASSIC 36C":["CLASSIC","The Formation of Ancient Greek Society: Fourth-Century and Hellenistic Greece","A survey of ancient Greek civilization from the fourth century BCE through to the Hellenistic period. Focuses on major institutions and cultural phenomena as seen through the study of ancient Greek literature, history, archaeology, and religion.",""],"CLASSIC 37A":["CLASSIC","The Formation of Ancient Roman Society: Origins to Roman Republic","A survey of the development of Roman civilization from its eighth century BCE beginnings to the civil wars of the first century BCE. Examines political and social history, as well as literature, art, architecture, and religion.",""],"CLASSIC 37B":["CLASSIC","The Formation of Ancient Roman Society: Roman Empire","A survey of Roman civilization from Augustus's consolidation of power following the civil wars of the first century BCE to the crisis of the third century CE. Includes social history, literature, art, architecture, and religion.",""],"CLASSIC 37C":["CLASSIC","The Formation of Ancient Roman Society: The Fall of Rome","A survey of Roman civilization from the crisis of the third century CE to the so-called \"fall of Rome\" in 476 CE.  Examines political and social history, as well as literature, art, architecture, and religion.",""],"CLASSIC 45A":["CLASSIC","Classical Mythology: The Gods","An overview of the main myths of the gods of the ancient Greeks and Romans and their influence in contemporary and later literature and art. Includes readings from both ancient and modern sources.",""],"CLASSIC 45B":["CLASSIC","Classical Mythology: The Heroes","An overview of the main myths of the heroes of the ancient Greeks and Romans and their influence in contemporary and later literature and art. Includes readings from both ancient and modern sources.",""],"CLASSIC 45C":["CLASSIC","Classical Mythology: Ancient and Modern Perspectives of Classical Mythology","Detailed examination of key Greek and Roman myths, their interpretations, and the influence they have exerted on literature, art, and popular culture in subsequent periods.",""],"CLASSIC 99":["CLASSIC","Special Studies in Classics","Lower-division level independent research with Classics faculty.",""],"CLASSIC 140":["CLASSIC","Classics and History: The Ancient World","Selected topics in society and culture of the Graeco-Roman world. Readings in translation.",""],"CLASSIC 150":["CLASSIC","Classical Mythology","Selected myths and legends as used in Classical literature, and their modern interpretations.",""],"CLASSIC 160":["CLASSIC","Topics in Classical Literature in English Translation","Studies in selected areas of Classical literature. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"CLASSIC 160W":["CLASSIC","Topics in Classical Literature in English Translation","Studies in selected areas of Classical literature. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. "],"CLASSIC 166":["CLASSIC","Topics in Classical Reception","Studies in selected areas of Classical reception. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"CLASSIC 170":["CLASSIC","Topics in Classical Civilization","Studies in selected areas of Classical civilization. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"CLASSIC 176":["CLASSIC","International Studies and the Classics","Develops a broader understanding of the formation of different cultures and countries of Classical times and their impact on the modern world.",""],"CLASSIC 192A":["CLASSIC","Senior Capstone","Under the guidance of a faculty mentor, majors design and execute a senior project. This project may be a research paper, dramatic production, school curriculum, etc. All projects must be approved by the faculty mentor.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CLASSIC 192B":["CLASSIC","Senior Capstone","Under the guidance of a faculty mentor, majors design and execute a senior project. This project may be a research paper, dramatic production, school curriculum, etc. All projects must be approved by the faculty mentor.","CLASSIC 192A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CLASSIC 198":["CLASSIC","Directed Group Study","Special topics in Classical studies through directed reading and research.",""],"CLASSIC 199":["CLASSIC","Independent Study in Classics","Independent research with Classics faculty.",""],"CLASSIC 280":["CLASSIC","Independent Study","Supervised independent research. Subject varies.",""],"CLASSIC 290":["CLASSIC","Research in Classics","Research under Classics faculty.",""],"CLASSIC 299":["CLASSIC","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Classics faculty.",""],"CLASSIC 399":["CLASSIC","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"COGS 10A":["COGS","Exploratory Data Analysis","Learn multiple ways of visualizing data, of transforming data, looking for consistencies and patterns in data, and interpreting these patterns to reach conclusions. Serves as first introduction to computer programming using the R language.",""],"COGS 10B":["COGS","Probability and Inference","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on thorough understanding of the probabilistic and logical basis of formal statistical inference, and the concept of statistical evidence. Applications in R.","PSYC 10A or COGS 10A"],"COGS 10C":["COGS","Statistical Models","Students learn about standard procedures in statistics for the social sciences, with a focus on linear models for discovering the underlying structure in data. Applications in R.","PSYC 10A or COGS 10A"],"COGS 14M":["COGS","MATLAB Programming","MATLAB is a mathematical software package for solving quantitative problems often encountered in experimental psychology. Topics include rudiments of programming, statistical analysis of data, matrix algebra, signal processing, graphic visualization, and simulated models of cognitive and perceptual processes.",""],"COGS 14P":["COGS","Scientific Python for Research","Introduces Python for data analysis and modeling encountered in cognitive science and neuroscience. Topics include data structures, execution control, graphic visualization, and interaction with sound and display interfaces. Application in statistical analysis, model simulation, and stimulus presentation and experimental control.",""],"COGS H101A":["COGS","Honors Seminar in Psychology and Cognitive Sciences I","Focuses on the research activities and honors thesis research projects of each student and the research of various Cognitive Sciences faculty. Students discuss their research interests in the early and later stages of their projects. Research projects and write-ups required.",""],"COGS H101B":["COGS","Honors Seminar in Psychology and Cognitive Sciences II","Focuses on the research activities and honors thesis research projects of each student and the research of various Cognitive Sciences faculty. Students discuss their research interests in the early and later stages of their projects. Research projects and write-ups required.","PSYC H101A"],"COGS H101C":["COGS","Honors Seminar in Psychology and Cognitive Sciences III","Focuses on the research activities and honors thesis research projects of each student and the research of various Cognitive Sciences faculty. Students discuss their research interests in the early and later stages of their projects. Research projects and write-ups required.","PSYC H101B"],"COGS 106":["COGS","Computational Lab Skills","Teaches programming tools, skills, and conventions for collaborative work in computational cognitive science. Topics covered include program structure, version control, random number generation, plotting, basic model fitting, and numerical optimization methods.","(PSYC 14M or PSYC 114M or COGS 14P or ICS 31) and (PSYC 10C or STAT 7 or STAT 110)"],"COGS 107":["COGS","Cognitive Modeling","Cognitive process models analyzed using computational Bayesian methods. Formal statistical specification of models, parameter estimation, model evaluation, and research applications. Covers multinomial process trees, signal detection theory, Thurstone ranking models, item-response theory, decision models, and reaction time models.","(PSYC 14M or PSYC 114M or COGS 14P or ICS 31 or MATH 9) and (PSYC 10C or STAT 7 or STAT 110) and (MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B)"],"COGS 108":["COGS","Neural Analytics","Introduces the theoretical foundations and practical applications of neural data analysis. Topics include models of neural signals, neural time series analysis, and machine learning applications in cognitive neuroscience.","(PSYC 14M or PSYC 114M or COGS 14P or ICS 31 or MATH 9) and (PSYC 10C or STAT 7 or STAT 110) and (MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B)"],"COGS 109":["COGS","Cognitive Sciences Research Seminar","Read and discuss examples of the primary research leading to the concepts covered in Psychology Fundamentals. Focuses on how this research is conducted and how inferences from it are drawn.","r corequisite: PSYC 9A"],"COGS 110":["COGS","Quantitative Methods for Cognitive Sciences Research","Basics of quantitative methods used in cognitive sciences research focusing on linear algebra, Fourier analysis, multivariate statistics, and signal detection theory. Examples drawn from models and methods used in cognitive sciences research with practical examples.","MATH 2B and STAT 7 and (PSYC 114M or ICS 31)"],"COGS 112A":["COGS","Experimental Psychology","Emphasis on design of experiments and analysis of results. Experiments are conducted in laboratory sections.","((PSYC 9A and PSYC 9B and PSYC 9C) or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11B and PSCI 11C)) and ((PSYC 10A and PSYC 10B and PSYC 10C) or (MATH 2A and MATH 2B and (MATH 7 or STAT 7)) )"],"COGS 112BW":["COGS","Advanced Experimental Psychology","Design and analysis of multivalent, factorial, and correlational studies. Students prepare proposals for independent research.","PSYC 112A and PSYC 112LA. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"COGS 112C":["COGS","Research in Experimental Psychology","Each student conducts a research project in experimental psychology. The projects are discussed in a seminar format. Written reports on each project are submitted at the end of the quarter.","PSYC 112B and PSYC 112LB"],"COGS 112LA":["COGS","Experimental Psychology Laboratory","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for Psych 112A.",""],"COGS 112LB":["COGS","Advanced Experimental Psychology Laboratory","Required laboratory section for PSYCH 112B and PSYCH 112BW.",""],"COGS 112LC":["COGS","Research in Experimental Psychology","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for PSYCH 112C.",""],"COGS 112LP":["COGS","Research in Perception and Psychophysics Laboratory","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for COGS 112P.",""],"COGS 112LR":["COGS","Cognitive Robotics Laboratory","Required laboratory section and corequisite for PSYCH 112R.",""],"COGS 112P":["COGS","Research in Perception and Psychophysics","Introduction to design and practice of experiments: students perform auditory, visual, tactile, or other experiments. Emphasis on methodology, finding and reading previous research, generating research ideas, statistical analysis.","(PSYC 9A and PSYC 9B and PSYC 9C) or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11B and PSCI 11C) and (PSYC 10C or SSCI 10C or ANTH 10C or PLSC 10C or SOCL 10C) or (MATH 2B and STAT 7)"],"COGS 112R":["COGS","Cognitive Robotics","Introduces concepts on experimental design, embodiment, robot construction, and computer programming. Concepts of embodied intelligence and case studies of cognitive robotics are covered in lecture. Simple robots are constructed and programmed to carry out different behavioral experiments in lab.","(PSYC 9A and PSYC 9B and PSYC 9C) or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11B and PSCI 11C) and (PSYC 10C or SSCI 10C or ANTH 10C or PLSC 10C or SOCL 10C) or (MATH 2B and STAT 7)"],"COGS 130A":["COGS","Perception and Sensory Processes","A general introduction to the scientific study of sensory processes and perceptual phonomena, with special emphasis in the visual systems.","(PSYC 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYC 9A or PSCI 11A)"],"COGS 131A":["COGS","Vision","Visual perception and the anatomy and physiology of the visual system. Topics include the retina and the visual pathway; visual sensitivity; color vision; spatial vision; motion perception; and the development of the visual system.",""],"COGS 131B":["COGS","Hearing","Auditory perception, the anatomy and physiology of the auditory system, and the physics of sound. Topics include neural transduction of sound, sensitivity, sound localization, complex sound perception, and hearing loss.","(PSYC 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYC 9B or PSCI 11B)"],"COGS 139":["COGS","Special Topics in Perception and Sensory Processes","Studies in selected areas of perception and sensory processes. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"COGS 140J":["COGS","Judgment and Decision Making","The psychology of human decision making. Theories, models, experiments, and data that inform how people make choices, judgments, and other decisions. Topics include optimality and bias, mental simulation, learning and feedback, expertise, emotional effects, and group decision making.","PSYC 9A and PSYC 9B"],"COGS 140L":["COGS","Principles of Learning Theory","Investigation of the learning and memory processes of human and animals.  Basic experimental approaches to learning and memory, empirical results, and theoretical interpretations of the evidence are discussed.","(PSYC 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYC 9A or PSCI 11A)"],"COGS 140M":["COGS","Human Memory","Developments in the area of memory; history of memory research; theories of the nature of memory. Visual memory, recognition memory, high-speed scanning, free recall, short-term memory, mnemonics, retrieval, relationship of memory to thinking. Selected theoretical formulations for memory.","(PSYC 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYC 9B or PSCI 11B)"],"COGS 160A":["COGS","Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience","Introduction to the neural basis of human perceptual, motor, and cognitive abilities. Topics include sensory perception, motor control, memory, language, attention, emotion, frontal lobe function, functional brain imaging, and neuropsychological disorders.","(PSYC 7A or PSCI 9) or ((PSYC 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYC 9B or PSCI 11B))"],"COGS 160D":["COGS","Brain Disorders and Behavior","Examines the localization of human brain functions and the effects of neurological disorders on psychological functions such as perception, motor control, language, memory, and decision-making.","(PSYC 7A or PSCI 9) or ((PSYC 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYC 9B or PSCI 11B)) or BIOL 35 or BIOL N110 or BIOL N115A"],"COGS 201A":["COGS","Cognitive Sciences Research Seminar","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors.",""],"COGS 201B":["COGS","Cognitive Sciences Research Seminar","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors.","COGS 201A"],"COGS 201C":["COGS","Cognitive Sciences Research Seminar","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors.","COGS 201B"],"COGS 202A":["COGS","Proseminar in the Cognitive Sciences","Introduction to the conceptual foundations and basic research results in the cognitive sciences for first-year graduate students.",""],"COGS 203A":["COGS","Statistical Models for Cognitive Sciences I ","Logic and set theory are covered during the first three weeks, using an interactive computer system. The remaining seven weeks are devoted to probability theory and cover elementary concepts from samples spaces to Chebychev's Inequality and the moment generating function.",""],"COGS 203B":["COGS","Statistical Models for Cognitive Sciences II ","An introduction to statistical estimation and statistical inference. Topics include sufficiency and the Rao-Blackwell Theorem, completeness and the Lehmann-Scheffe Theorem. The method of maximum likelihood is explored in some detail. Inference in linear models covers regression and analysis of variance.",""],"COGS 203C":["COGS","Statistical Models for Cognitive Sciences III ","Discussion of the fundamentals of statistical inference and computational implementations of common statistical models.",""],"COGS 203D":["COGS","Applied Mathematics for Cognitive Sciences","Covers the basics of linear systems analysis, focusing on linear algebra, Fourier analysis, differential equations, and elementary signal processing. Applications in Cognitive Science and Cognitive Neuroscience research are developed.",""],"COGS 204A":["COGS","Seminar in Professional Development","Development of professional skills. Focuses on grant writing and submission process, responsible conduct of research, and ethics training.",""],"COGS 204B":["COGS","Seminar in Professional Development","Development of professional skills. Focus on scientific presentations and preparation.",""],"COGS 204C":["COGS","Seminar in Professional Development","Development of professional skills. Focuses on career opportunities, interests and information, and community outreach.",""],"COGS 205A":["COGS","Introduction to Programming","Introduces rudiments of programming, statistical analysis and probability theory, graphic visualization, GUI design, spectral analysis, and simulation models using MATLAB, a software package for solving quantitative problems often encountered in experimental psychology.",""],"COGS 205B":["COGS","Computational Lab Skills for Cognitive Scientists I","Provides an in-depth introduction to writing MATLAB programs to run auditory and visual experiments. Topics covered include program structure, stimulus generation, presentation, and data collection.",""],"COGS 205C":["COGS","Computational Lab Skills for Cognitive Scientists II","Introduction to a number of computational statistics approaches including exploratory data analysis and modeling using a probabilistic framework with Bayesian graphical models. Emphasis on in-class programming using MATLAB.",""],"COGS 205D":["COGS","Neural Networks and Machine Learning","An introduction and review of the current state of the art in neural networks and machine learning with specific emphasis of applications to behavioral and neuroscience data analysis and modeling.",""],"COGS 210A":["COGS","Cognitive and Brain Sciences I: Topics in Perception","Discusses models of cognition and evidence linking cognition and the brain. Focus is on visual, auditory, and somatic perception and bottom-up mechanisms of attention.",""],"COGS 210B":["COGS","Cognitive and Brain Sciences II: Topics in Cognition","Discusses models of cognition and evidence linking cognition and the brain. Focus is on emotion, top-down attention, goal-directed behavior, categorization, judgment, and decision-making.",""],"COGS 210C":["COGS","Cognitive and Brain Sciences III: Topics in Learning and Development","Discusses experimental data, formal models of learning, and evidence linking learning and development to its neural substrates. Topics include Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning, language acquisition, causal reasoning, perceptual learning, category formation, and structure learning.",""],"COGS 213":["COGS","The Mind\/Body Problem","Multidisciplinary, drawing on information from the fields of quantum physics, computer vision, artificial intelligence, cognition, neurophysiology, philosophy, and psychophysics.",""],"COGS 214":["COGS","Bayesian Cognitive Modeling","Considers a range of statistical methods of data analysis and simple cognitive models using the Bayesian graphical modeling framework.",""],"COGS 218":["COGS","Hearing","Examines auditory sensation and perception using psychophysical and neuroscientific perspectives. Covers physical aspects of sound; subcortical auditory processing; aspects of sensation and perception such as sensitivity, sound localization, and complex-sound recognition; neuroscientific studies of cortical function; and abnormal auditory processing.",""],"COGS 229":["COGS","Special Topics in Human Cognition","Current research in brain\/ behavior relationships, human memory, and learning theory is presented.",""],"COGS 235":["COGS","Analysis of Neural Time Series","Hands-on introduction to techniques for the analysis of neural time series data, with a primary focus on the electroencephalogram (EEG). Topics may include the physiological basis of EEG, time-frequency analysis, spatial filtering, and methods of assessing connectivity.",""],"COGS 237":["COGS","Advanced Bayesian Cognitive Modeling","Considers a range of advanced cognitive process models including models of signal detection, memory retention, category learning, stimulus representation, and reasoning using the Bayesian graphical modeling framework.","COGS 214"],"COGS 239":["COGS","Special Topics in Methodology and Models","Current research in cognitive sciences methodologies, concepts, and models is presented.",""],"COGS 259":["COGS","Special Topics in Human Performance","Current research in the human issues involved with sensation, perception, and cognition.",""],"COGS 261N":["COGS","Cortical Neuroscience","Physiology of the cerebral cortex, theoretical neuroscience, and the neural basis of perception.",""],"COGS 262":["COGS","Functional Neuroanatomy","It is impossible to truly understand human behavior without some understanding of the physical structure that enables behavior. Examines recent findings in functional neuroantomy through lectures and papers discussing links between particular behaviors and specific brain structures.",""],"COGS 265":["COGS","Introduction to Functional MRI","Describes the fundamentals of imaging the human brain function using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Topics include basic fMRI physics, experimental design, and data acquisition and analysis.",""],"COGS 268A":["COGS","Computational Neuroscience","Introduction to computational neuroscience. Mathematical models of single neurons, neural circuits, thalamocortical systems, and cortical mass action can stimulate single-unit, local field potential, and EEG dynamics. These models are used to investigate mechanisms of sensation, motor control, attention, and consciousness.",""],"COGS 268R":["COGS","Cognitive Robotics","Introduces concepts for studying cognitive function by embedding brain models on robotic platforms. Topics include robot construction, computer programming, and the notion of embodiment. Students construct simple robots and program these robots to perform different behaviors.",""],"COGS 269":["COGS","Special Topics in Cognitive Neuroscience","Current research in cognitive neuroscience.",""],"COGS 289":["COGS","Special Topics in Sensation and Perception","Current research in the reception and processing of visual and auditory stimuli presented.",""],"COGS 290":["COGS","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Cognitive Science faculty.",""],"COGS 299":["COGS","Individual Study","Individual research with Cognitive Science faculty.",""],"COM LIT 3":["COM LIT","Just Reading: Developing the Reading Experience ","Develops the reading experience apart from writing. Develops tools for sustained attention in reading practice across a wide range of genres and media from across the globe. Students learn to appreciate elements of reading experience such as attention and perplexity.",""],"COM LIT 8":["COM LIT","Travels in Comparative Literature","Readings in English and in English translation on such topics as love, war, cities, travel writing, politics, fantasy and science fiction, violence.",""],"COM LIT 9":["COM LIT","Introduction to Multiculturalism","Various themes and forms of literary and cultural production within a multicultural framework, including African American, Asian American, Chicano\/Latino, and Native American literatures and cultures.",""],"COM LIT 10":["COM LIT","Topics in World Literature","Introduction to texts from across the globe and from different historical periods.  Readings in English and English translation.",""],"COM LIT 60A":["COM LIT","World Literature","An introduction to the comparative study of literatures and cultures in a global context. Studies literary texts and other media across the borders of various cultures, historical periods, and traditions. All texts are read in English translation.",""],"COM LIT 60B":["COM LIT","Reading with Theory","Introduction to theory and methods of literary and cultural criticism in a global context. Students read theoretical approaches to literature, culture, and ideas. Marx and Freud, e.g., may be studied alongside readings in narrative poetry, film, song lyrics, novel.",""],"COM LIT 60C":["COM LIT","Cultural Studies","Introduces students to a variety of cultural practices (literature, blogs, films, radio, comics) from across the globe. Focuses on the ways that context, genre, and medium (e.g., written, visual, oral) affect how these practices are produced, circulated, and received.",""],"COM LIT 100A":["COM LIT","Nations, Regions, and Beyond","Intensive study of national and regional cultural and literary traditions from across the globe, among them the literary and cultural production of the Middle East, Africa, Europe, the Americas, and Asia.",""],"COM LIT 101W":["COM LIT","An Introduction to Translation Studies","Focuses on theories of translation and on how these theories help students understand the role of translation in the world. Students develop a critical vocabulary for discussing translation in multiple linguistic traditions and complete a final translation project.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. Working knowledge of at least one foreign language."],"COM LIT 102W":["COM LIT","Comparative Studies in Literature and Theory","In-depth discussion of special topics.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"COM LIT 105":["COM LIT","Topics in Comparative Multiculturalism","Treats the literatures and cultures of one or more minority groups in California and the United States, including African Americans, Asian Americans, Chicano\/Latinos, and Native Americans, and their relations to other national literatures.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"COM LIT 107":["COM LIT","Colonialisms and Postcolonialisms","Explores topics such as colonialism and race, decolonization, pre- and postcoloniality, globalization, and the cultural dynamics of colonization and subjectivity.",""],"COM LIT 121":["COM LIT","Narrative, Pattern, and Text","Explores textual patterns, structures, and effects.  May include topics such as novel, hypertext, genre, reader responses, intertextuality.",""],"COM LIT 123":["COM LIT","Literatures in Dialogue","Studies how texts interact across time and space in a global context. Uses concepts of influence, imitation, and parody, to ask, for example, how the Homeric epics can help us understand Caribbean novels and U.S. movies such as Troy.",""],"COM LIT 130":["COM LIT","Gender, Sexuality, Race, Class","Discusses the roles of differences such as race, class, gender, and sexuality in society, culture, and literature across the globe, covering topics such as theoretical and literary representations of queer sexuality, gender performance, critical race theory.",""],"COM LIT 131":["COM LIT","Psychoanalysis and Culture","Discusses major psychoanalytic writings of Freud and others in connection with questions of culture.",""],"COM LIT 132":["COM LIT","Discourse, Ideologies, and Politics","Compares ideologies and systems, e.g., nationalism and fundamentalism, as they affect literature and culture in a global context.",""],"COM LIT 140":["COM LIT","Critical Cultural Studies","Introduces a variety of ways of understanding cultural phenomena in relation to different power structures.  These cultural phenomena may include comics, film, literature, sports, music, festivals, telling stories, or eating out.",""],"COM LIT 142":["COM LIT","The Metropolis and Other Cultural Geographies","Examines the relationship between space and culture; cultural production in the city, suburb, and\/or countryside; spaces in texts and artifacts (film, literature, comics, photographs) in a global context.",""],"COM LIT 143":["COM LIT","Literature, Arts, and Media","Explores literature and other arts and media in a global context. May include film and electronic media, fine arts, oral cultures, architecture, in an international framework.",""],"COM LIT 144":["COM LIT","Literature, History, and Society","Explores the relationship between literary texts and their historical and social contexts in an international framework. Courses may address, for example, literary and cultural expressions in social revolutions or the way literary texts talk back to medicine, religion, and anthropology.",""],"COM LIT 150":["COM LIT","Literature in Translation","The study of literary works in one or more genres in English translation.  May be a comparative study of works from several different original languages or a concentration on works from a single cultural\/linguistic tradition.",""],"COM LIT 160":["COM LIT","World Cinema         ","Comparative analysis of contemporary film in languages other than English.",""],"COM LIT 190W":["COM LIT","Advanced Seminar in Comparative Literature and Theory","Capstone seminar for the Comparative Literature major. Deepens understanding of the field through investigation of a special topic and a substantial research and writing project.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"COM LIT 199":["COM LIT","Independent Study in Comparative Literature","To be taken only when the materials to be studied lie outside the normal run of departmental offerings.",""],"COM LIT 200A":["COM LIT","History of Comparative Literature and Introduction to Methods and Theories of CL","Seminar designed to introduce graduate students in Comparative Literature to the discipline of Comparative Literature. Issues and theories of comparative literary and cultural study are covered. Strongly recommended for first and second year students before the M.A. exam and review.",""],"COM LIT 200B":["COM LIT","Theories of Translation","The reproduction, translation, and transfer of literary and cultural, ideological and political, and symbolic codes and texts have long been the object of study in Comparative Literature. Addresses the diverse ways in which expressive systems interact and intersect.",""],"COM LIT 210":["COM LIT","Comparative Studies   ","Studies in selected areas of Comparative Literature. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"COM LIT 220":["COM LIT","Translation Workshop","Trains students in the methodologies and practice of translation.  Students focus on the translating process in a series of case studies and individual projects.",""],"COM LIT 280A":["COM LIT","Professionalization Seminar","The first of two required professionalization seminars in Comparative Literature. Intended for second and third year students and covers preparation for the M.A. and Ph.D. exams, conference presentations, teaching and classroom management, and publishing journals.",""],"COM LIT 280B":["COM LIT","Professionalization Seminar","The second of two required professionalization seminars in Comparative Literature. Intended for fourth and fifth year students and covers course design, applying for grants, dissertation prospectus and support, and the job application process.","COM LIT 280A. COM LIT 280A with a grade of B or better"],"COM LIT 290":["COM LIT","Reading and Conference","Studies in selected areas. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"COM LIT 291":["COM LIT","Guided Reading Course","Studies in selected areas. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"COM LIT 292":["COM LIT","Teaching Practicum ","Graduate students develop their pedagogical practices by accompanying a professor teaching a UCI undergraduate class. Meets individually with the professor to discuss relevant pedagogical practices, syllabus design, lecturing, assessment, classroom management, etc. Actively participates in one teaching component.",""],"COM LIT 299":["COM LIT","Dissertation Research","A units-only course for students in the dissertation phase.",""],"COM LIT 399":["COM LIT","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"CSE 90":["CSE","Systems Engineering and Technical Communications ","Introduces systems engineering concepts, including specifications and requirements, hardware and software design, integration, testing, and documentation. Emphasizes organization and writing of reports and effective presentations.",""],"CSE 112":["CSE","Electronic Devices and Circuits","A first course in the design of Very Large Scale Integrated (VLSI) systems. Introduction to CMOS technology; MOS transistors and CMOS circuits. Analysis and synthesis of CMOS gates. Layout design techniques for building blocks and systems. Introduction to CAD tools.","PHYS 7D and (CSE 70A or EECS 70A)"],"CSE 199":["CSE","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"COMPSCI 103":["COMPSCI","Advanced Programming and Problem Solving with C++","Advanced programming language concepts for more complex, higher performance software design. Builds depth of programming skills in C++ as a foundation for upper-division courses and projects. Focuses on strengthening programming, debugging, and problem solving skills.","I&C SCI 45C"],"COMPSCI 111":["COMPSCI","Digital Image Processing","Introduction to the fundamental concepts of digital signal and image processing as applicable in areas such as multimedia, graphics, AI, data mining, databases, vision, or video games. Topics include image representation, space- and frequency-domain transformations, filters, segmentation, and compression.","(I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and I&C SCI 6D and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N). I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 6D with a grade of C or better. MATH 3A with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 6N with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 112":["COMPSCI","Computer Graphics","Introduction to the fundamental principles of 3D computer graphics including polygonal modeling, geometric transformations, visibility algorithms, illumination models, texturing, and rasterization. Use of an independently-learned 3D graphics API to implement these techniques.","I&C SCI 46 and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N). I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. MATH 3A with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 6N with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 113":["COMPSCI","Computer Game Development","Introduction to the principles of interactive 2D and 3D computer game development. Concepts in computer graphics, algorithms, software engineering, art and graphics, music and sound, story analysis, and artificial intelligence are presented and are the basis for student work.","COMPSCI 112 or COMPSCI 171 or IN4MATX 121 or ART 106B or I&C SCI 163 or I&C SCI 166"],"COMPSCI 114":["COMPSCI","Projects in Advanced 3D Computer Graphics","Projects in advanced 3D graphics such as illumination, geometric modeling, visualization, and animation. Topics include physically based and global illumination, solid modeling, curved surfaces, multiresolution modeling, image-based rendering, basic concepts of animation, and scientific visualization.","COMPSCI 112 and (I&C SCI 45C or CSE 45C). I&C SCI 45C with a grade of C or better. CSE 45C with a grade of C or better. Recommended: COMPSCI 161 or CSE 161 or COMPSCI 164 or COMPSCI 165. "],"COMPSCI 115":["COMPSCI","Computer Simulation","Discrete event-driven simulation; continuous system simulation; basic probability as pertaining to input distributions and output analysis; stochastic and deterministic simulation; static and dynamic system simulation.","I&C SCI 6B and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A) and (STATS 67 or STATS 7) and STATS 120A and I&C SCI 51 and IN4MATX 43. I&C SCI 6B with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 6N with a grade of C or better. MATH 3A with a grade of C or better. STATS 67 with a grade of C or better. STATS 7 with a grade of C or better. STATS 120A with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 51 with a grade of C or better. IN4MATX 43 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 116":["COMPSCI","Computational Photography and Vision","Introduces the problems of computer vision through the application of computational photography. Specific topics include photo-editing (image warping, compositing, hole filling), panoramic image stitching, and face detection for digital photographs.","I&C SCI 6D and (MATH 6G or MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N) and MATH 2B and (I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46). I&C SCI 6D with a grade of C or better. MATH 6G with a grade of C or better. MATH 3A with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 6N with a grade of C or better. MATH 2B with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 117":["COMPSCI","Project in Computer Vision","Students undertake construction of a computer vision system. Topics include automatically building 3D models from photographs, searching photo collections, robot navigation, and human motion tracking.","I&C SCI 6D and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N) and MATH 2B and (I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and (COMPSCI 112 or COMPSCI 116 or COMPSCI 171 or COMPSCI 178). I&C SCI 6D with a grade of C or better. MATH 3A with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 6N with a grade of C or better. MATH 2B with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 118":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Virtual Reality","Introduces virtual reality systems and software. Topics include computer graphics pipeline, human visual system and perception, head mounted displays, image formation, sensors and tracking, and 3D sound. Students use a popular cross-platform game engine to create VR environments.","(I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A) and I&C SCI 33"],"COMPSCI 121":["COMPSCI","Information Retrieval","An introduction to information retrieval including indexing, retrieval, classifying, and clustering text and multimedia documents.","(I&C SCI 45C or I&C SCI 45J) and (STATS 7 or STATS 67). I&C SCI 45C with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 45J with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 122A":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Data Management","Introduction to the design of databases and the use of database management systems (DBMS) for applications. Topics include entity-relationship modeling for design, relational data model, relational algebra, relational design theory, and Structured Query Language (SQL) programming.","I&C SCI 33 or EECS 114. I&C SCI 33 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 122B":["COMPSCI","Project in Databases and Web Applications","Introduces students to advanced database technologies and web applications. Topics include database connectivity (ODBC\/JDBC), extending databases using stored procedures, database administration, web servers, web programming languages (Java servlets, XML, Ajax, and mobile platforms).","(COMPSCI 122A or EECS 116) and (I&C SCI 45J or AP Computer Science A). AP Computer Science A with a minimum score of 4"],"COMPSCI 122C":["COMPSCI","Principles of Data Management","Covers fundamental principles underlying data management systems. Content includes key techniques including storage management, buffer management, record-oriented file system, access methods, query optimization, and query processing.","COMPSCI 122A and (I&C SCI 53 or COMPSCI 143A)"],"COMPSCI 122D":["COMPSCI","Beyond SQL Data Management","Survey of modern data management and analysis technologies beyond relational (SQL) database management. Topics include semistructured data, NoSQL databases, big data analysis, and text search\/query engines. Additional topics vary and may include data frames, streaming data, and\/or time-series data.","I&C SCI 46 and I&C SCI 51 and (COMPSCI 122A or EECS 116)"],"COMPSCI 125":["COMPSCI","Next Generation Search Systems","Discusses concepts and techniques related to all aspects of search systems. After considering basic search technology and the state-of-art systems, rapidly developing techniques for multimedia search, local search, event-search, and video-on-demand are explored.","I&C SCI 31 or CSE 41 or I&C SCI 32A"],"COMPSCI 131":["COMPSCI","Parallel and Distributed Computing","Parallel and distributed computer systems. Parallel programming models. Common parallel and distributed programming issues. Specific topics include parallel programming, performance models, coordination and synchronization, consistency and replication, transactions, fault tolerance.","(I&C SCI 53 and I&C SCI 53L) or COMPSCI 143A"],"COMPSCI 132":["COMPSCI","Computer Networks","Computer network architectures, protocols, and applications.  Internet congestion control, addressing, and routing. Local area networks. Multimedia networking.","EECS 55 or STATS 67"],"COMPSCI 133":["COMPSCI","Advanced Computer Networks","Fundamental principles in computer networks are applied to obtain practical experience and skills necessary for designing and implementing computer networks, protocols, and network applications. Various network design techniques, simulation techniques, and UNIX network programming are covered.","COMPSCI 132 or EECS 148"],"COMPSCI 134":["COMPSCI","Computer and Network Security","Overview of modern computer and networks security, attacks, and countermeasures. Authentication, identification, data secrecy, data integrity, authorization, access control, computer viruses, network security. Also covers secure e-commerce and applications of public key methods, digital certificates, and credentials.","I&C SCI 6D and (I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43) and (COMPSCI 122A or EECS 116 or COMPSCI 132 or COMPSCI 143A)"],"COMPSCI 137":["COMPSCI","Internet Applications Engineering","Concepts in Internet applications engineering with emphasis on the Web. Peer-to-Peer and Interoperability. Topics include HTTP and REST, Remote Procedure\/Method Calls, Web Services, data representations, content distribution networks, identity management, relevant W3C\/IETF standards, and relevant new large-scale computing styles.","(COMPSCI 132 or EECS 148) and I&C SCI 45J"],"COMPSCI 141":["COMPSCI","Concepts in Programming Languages I","In-depth study of several contemporary programming languages stressing variety in data structures, operations, notation, and control. Examination of different programming paradigms, such as logic programming, functional programming and object-oriented programming; implementation strategies, programming environments, and programming style.","(I&C SCI 51 or CSE 31 or EECS 31) and (I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46). I&C SCI 51 with a grade of C or better. CSE 31 with a grade of C or better. EECS 31 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 142A":["COMPSCI","Compilers and Interpreters","Introduction to the theory of programming language processors covering lexical analysis, syntax analysis, semantic analysis, intermediate representations, code generation, optimization, interpretation, and run-time support.","CSE 141 or COMPSCI 141 or IN4MATX 101"],"COMPSCI 142B":["COMPSCI","Language Processor Construction","Project course which provides working laboratory experience in construction and behavior of compilers and interpreters. Students build actual language processors and perform experiments which reveal their behaviors.","COMPSCI 142A or CSE 142"],"COMPSCI 143A":["COMPSCI","Principles of Operating Systems","Principles and concepts of process and resource management, especially as seen in operating systems. Processes, memory management, protection, scheduling, file systems, and I\/O systems are covered. Concepts illustrated in the context of several well-known systems.","(I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and (I&C SCI 51 or EECS 31 or CSE 31)"],"COMPSCI 143B":["COMPSCI","Project in Operating System Organization","Detailed specification and design of critical components of an actual operating system including a memory manager, a process server, and a file\/IO subsystem. Hardware\/software tradeoffs. Emphasis on logical organization of system and communication.","COMPSCI 143A"],"COMPSCI 145":["COMPSCI","Embedded Software","Principles of embedded computing systems: embedded systems architecture, hardware\/software components, system software and interfacing, real-time operating systems, hardware\/software co-development, and communication issues. Examples of embedded computing in real-world application domains. Simple programming using an embedded systems development environment.","(CSE 46 or I&C SCI 46) and (I&C SCI 51 or EECS 31 or CSE 31)"],"COMPSCI 146":["COMPSCI","Programming in Multitasking Operating Systems","User- and systems-level programming of modern Internet-connected, multi-user, multitasking operating systems. Shells, scripting, filters, pipelines, programmability, extensibility, concurrency, inter-process communication. Concrete examples of a modern operating system (such as, but not necessarily, Unix programmed in C) are used.","(I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and I&C SCI 51. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 51 with a grade of C or better. Recommended: COMPSCI 143A."],"COMPSCI 147":["COMPSCI","Internet of Things (IoT) Software and Systems","Introduction to the Internet of Things (IoT) from a systems and software perspective. IoT ecosystem including sensors, embedded CPUs, networking protocols, software, cloud services, and security and privacy requirements. IoT use cases, system design, and programming project.","I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43"],"COMPSCI 151":["COMPSCI","Digital Logic Design","Boolean algebra. Design\/analysis of combinational and sequential systems using SSI\/MSI\/LSI modules. Number systems. Error detecting and correction codes. Arithmetic algorithms. Hardware\/ firmware implementation of algorithms.","(I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43) and I&C SCI 51 and I&C SCI 6B and I&C SCI 6D. I&C SCI 33 with a grade of C or better. CSE 43 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 51 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 152":["COMPSCI","Computer Systems Architecture","Design of computer elements; ALU, control unit, and arithmetic circuits. Memory hierarchy and organization. Caches. Function unit sharing and pipelining. I\/O and interrupt processing. RTL and behavioral modeling using hardware description languages. Microprocessor organization and implementation techniques.","COMPSCI 151"],"COMPSCI 153":["COMPSCI","Logic Design Laboratory","Introduction to standard integrated circuits. Construction and debugging techniques. Design of digital systems using LSI and MSI components. Practical use of circuits in a laboratory environment, including implementation of small digital systems such as arithmetic modules, displays, and timers.","COMPSCI 151"],"COMPSCI 154":["COMPSCI","Computer Design Laboratory","Underlying primitives of computer instruction sets. Principles of microprogramming. Microprogramming. Microprograms written for one or more systems. Typical microprogramming applications discussed and implemented or simulated.","COMPSCI 151"],"COMPSCI 161":["COMPSCI","Design and Analysis of Algorithms","Techniques for efficient algorithm design, including divide-and-conquer and dynamic programming, and time\/space analysis. Fast algorithms for problems applicable to networks, computer games, and scientific computing, such as sorting, shortest paths, minimum spanning trees, network flow, and pattern matching.","(I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and I&C SCI 6B and I&C SCI 6D and MATH 2B. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 162":["COMPSCI","Formal Languages and Automata","Formal aspects of describing and recognizing languages by grammars and automata.  Parsing regular and context-free languages. Ambiguity, nondeterminism. Elements of computability; Turning machines, random access machines, undecidable problems, NP-completeness.","(I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and MATH 2B and I&C SCI 6B and I&C SCI 6D. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 163":["COMPSCI","Graph  Algorithms","Algorithms for solving fundamental problems in graph theory. Graph representations, graph traversal, network flow, connectivity, graph layout, matching problems.","COMPSCI 161 or CSE 161"],"COMPSCI 164":["COMPSCI","Computational Geometry and Geometric Modeling","Algorithms and data structures for computational geometry and geometric modeling, with applications to game and graphics programming. Topics: convex hulls, Voronoi diagrams, algorithms for triangulation, motion planning, and data structures for geometric searching and modeling of 2D and 3D objects.","I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 165":["COMPSCI","Project in Algorithms and Data Structures","Design, implementation, execution, and analysis of algorithms for problems such as sorting, searching, data compression, and data encryption. Time-space-structure trade-offs.","COMPSCI 161 or CSE 161. Recommended: I&C SCI 45C OR CSE 45C. "],"COMPSCI 166":["COMPSCI","Quantum Computation and Information","Basic models for quantum computation and their foundations in quantum mechanics. Quantum complexity classes and quantum algorithms, including algorithms for factoring and quantum simulation. Introduction to quantum information theory and quantum entanglement.","(I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A) and (COMPSCI 161 or PHYSICS 113A). I&C SCI 6N with a grade of C+ or better. MATH 3A with a grade of C+ or better"],"COMPSCI 167":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Applied Cryptography","An introduction to the essential aspects of applied cryptography, as it is used in practice. Topics include classical cryptography, block ciphers, stream ciphers, public-key cryptography, digital signatures, one-way hash functions, basic cryptographic protocols, and digital certificates and credentials.","COMPSCI 161 or CSE 161"],"COMPSCI 169":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Optimization","A broad introduction to optimization. Unconstrained and constrained optimization. Equality and inequality constraints. Linear and integer programming. Stochastic dynamic programming.","(I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A) and (STATS 67 or (STATS 7 and STATS 120A))"],"COMPSCI 171":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Artificial Intelligence","Different means of representing knowledge and uses of representations in heuristic problem solving. Representations considered include predicate logic, semantic nets, procedural representations, natural language grammars, and search trees.","r corequisite: ((STATS 7 and STATS 120A) or STATS 67) ( and (I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and MATH 2B)"],"COMPSCI 172B":["COMPSCI","Neural Networks and Deep Learning ","Neural network and deep learning from multiple perspectives. Theory of parallel distributed processing systems, algorithmic approaches for learning from data in various manners, applications to difficult problems in AI from computer vision, to natural language understanding, to bioinformatics and chemoinformatics.","(STATS 120A and STATS 120B) or MATH 121A or COMPSCI 178 or COMPSCI 273A"],"COMPSCI 172C":["COMPSCI","Artificial Intelligence Frontiers: Technical, Ethical, and Societal","Explores the frontiers of artificial intelligence and related technologies with a focus on the underlying ethical, legal, and societal challenges and opportunities they create. Encourages critical thinking about these issues.","COMPSCI 171 and COMPSCI 172B. Recommended: COMPSCI 178"],"COMPSCI 175":["COMPSCI","Project in Artificial Intelligence","Construction of a working artificial intelligence system. Evaluation of capabilities of the system including impact of knowledge representation.","COMPSCI 171 and COMPSCI 178"],"COMPSCI 177":["COMPSCI","Applications of Probability in Computer Science","Application of probability to real-world problems in computer science. Typical topics include analysis of algorithms and graphs, probabilistic language models, network traffic modeling, data compression, and reliability modeling.","MATH 2B and STATS 67 and I&C SCI 6B and I&C SCI 6D and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N)"],"COMPSCI 178":["COMPSCI","Machine Learning and Data-Mining","Introduction to principles of machine learning and data-mining applied to real-world datasets. Typical applications include spam filtering, object recognition, and credit scoring.","I&C SCI 6B and I&C SCI 6D and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A) and MATH 2B and (STATS 67 or (STATS 7 and STATS 120A))"],"COMPSCI 179":["COMPSCI","Algorithms for Probabilistic and Deterministic Graphical Models","Graphical model techniques dealing with probabilistic and deterministic knowledge representations. Focuses on graphical models such as constraint networks, Bayesian networks, and Markov networks that have become a central paradigm for knowledge representation and reasoning in AI and general computer science.","COMPSCI 171"],"COMPSCI 180A":["COMPSCI","Project in Computer Science","Students to solve a substantial real-world problem with knowledge gained from many areas in computer science. Project has a focus on computer science but can overlap with neighbor disciplines.","I&C SCI 46"],"COMPSCI 180B":["COMPSCI","Project in Computer Science","Students to solve a substantial real-world problem with knowledge gained from many areas in computer science. Project has a focus on computer science but can overlap with neighbor disciplines.","I&C SCI 46"],"COMPSCI 183":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Computational Biology","The use of theories and methods based on computer science, mathematics, and physics in molecular biology and biochemistry. Basics in biomolecular modeling. Analysis of sequence and structural data of biomolecules. Analysis of biomolecular functions.","MATH 2D or MATH 3A or STATS 7 or STATS 8"],"COMPSCI 184A":["COMPSCI","Artificial Intelligence in Biology and Medicine","Introduction to computational methods in molecular biology, aimed at those interested in learning about this interdisciplinary area. Covers computational approaches to understanding and predicting the structure, function, interactions, and evolution of DNA, RNA, proteins, and related molecules and processes.","I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A"],"COMPSCI 184C":["COMPSCI","Computational Systems Biology","Computational inference and modeling of gene regulation networks, signal transduction pathways, and the effects of regulatory networks in cellular processes, development, and disease. Introduction of required mathematical, computational, and data handling tools.","COMPSCI 184A"],"COMPSCI 190":["COMPSCI","Special Topics in Information and Computer Science","Studies in selected areas of Information and Computer Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"COMPSCI H198":["COMPSCI","Honors Research","Directed independent research in computer science for honors students.",""],"COMPSCI 199":["COMPSCI","Individual Study","Individual research or investigation with Computer Science faculty.",""],"COMPSCI 200S":["COMPSCI","Seminar in Computer Science Research","Graduate colloquium series. Includes weekly talks by notable computer scientists.",""],"COMPSCI 201":["COMPSCI","Foundations of Cryptographic Protocols","Explores fundamental cryptographic tools, including encryption, signatures, and identification schemes. Students are introduced to the provable security paradigm of modern cryptography, focusing on understanding of security properties provided by cryptographic tools, and on proving security (or insecurity) of cryptographic constructions.","COMPSCI 260 or COMPSCI 263"],"COMPSCI 201P":["COMPSCI","Computer Security","Introduction to computer security, including systems, technology, and management. Topics include authorization, authentication, data integrity, malware, operating systems security, network security, web security, and basic cryptography.","Knowledge of Python or C++ programming is required."],"COMPSCI 202":["COMPSCI","Applied Cryptography","Design and analysis of algorithms for applied cryptography. Topics include symmetric and asymmetric key encryption, digital signatures, one-way hash functions, digital certificates and credentials, and techniques for authorization, non-repudiation, authentication, identification, data integrity, proofs of knowledge, and access control.","COMPSCI 260 and COMPSCI 263"],"COMPSCI 202P":["COMPSCI","Applied Cryptography ","Design and analysis of algorithms for applied cryptography. Topics include symmetric and asymmetric key encryption, digital signatures, one-way hash functions, digital certificates and credentials, and techniques for authorization, non-repudiation, authentication, identification, data integrity, proofs of knowledge, and access control.",""],"COMPSCI 203":["COMPSCI","Network and Distributed Systems Security","Modern computer and networks security: attacks and countermeasures, authentication, identification, data secrecy, data integrity, authorization, access control, computer viruses, network security. Group communication and multicast security techniques. Covers secure e-commerce and applications of public key methods, digital certificates, and credentials.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"COMPSCI 203P":["COMPSCI","Network Security","Introduction to network security, including network threats and attacks, as well as defenses against such attacks. Topics include network infrastructure security, mobile and Wi-Fi security, spam, phishing, firewalls, anonymity, secure email, secure and private cloud computing, and web security.","COMPSCI 201P or COMPSCI 202P"],"COMPSCI 205":["COMPSCI","Computer and Systems Security ","Lecture and discuss latest security research in software, OS, protocols, mobile devices, machine learning, sensors, and emerging IoT\/CPS systems such as smart home and smart transportation. Students perform research projects and gain hands-on experience evaluating and designing secure systems.","COMPSCI 134 and COMPSCI 142A and COMPSCI 143A"],"COMPSCI 206":["COMPSCI","Principles of Scientific Computing","Overview of widely used principles and methods of numerical and scientific computing, including basic concepts and computational methods in linear algebra, optimization, and probability.","Basic courses in multivariate calculus, linear algebra, and probability."],"COMPSCI 206P":["COMPSCI","Principles of Scientific Computing","Overview of widely used principles and methods of numerical and scientific computing, including basic concepts and computational methods in floating-point, linear algebra, optimization, simulation, modeling, and probability\/statistics as it relates to model evaluation.","Basic knowledge of multivariate calculus, linear algebra, and familiarity with MATLAB. "],"COMPSCI 210P":["COMPSCI","Computer Graphics and Visualization  ","Interactive 3D graphics rendering pipeline, illumination and shading, ray tracing, texture-, bump-, mip-mapping, hidden surface removal, anti-aliasing, multiresolution representations, volume rendering techniques, iso-surface extraction.","Familiarity with linear algebra is required."],"COMPSCI 211A":["COMPSCI","Visual Computing","Fundamentals of image processing (convolution, linear filters, spectral analysis), vision geometry (projective geometry, camera models and calibration, stereo reconstruction), radiometry (color, shading, illumination, BRDF), and visual content synthesis (graphics pipeline, texture- bump-, mip-mapping, hidden surface removal, anti-aliasing).",""],"COMPSCI 211B":["COMPSCI","Computer Graphics and Visualization","Interactive 3D graphics rendering pipeline,  illumination and shading, ray tracing,  texture-, bump-, mip-mapping, hidden surface removal, anti-aliasing,  multiresolution representations, volume rendering techniques, iso-surface extraction.","COMPSCI 211A"],"COMPSCI 211C":["COMPSCI","Realistic Image Synthesis","Provides an in-depth overview on a core sub-field of computer graphics. Graduate  students who take this course are better prepared for conducting research on the related topics in computer graphics, vision, and scientific computing.",""],"COMPSCI 212":["COMPSCI","Multimedia Systems and Applications","Organization and structure of modern multimedia systems; audio and video encoding\/compression; quality of service concepts; scheduling algorithms for multimedia; resource management in distributed and multimedia systems; multimedia protocols over high-speed networks; synchronization schemes; multimedia applications; and teleservices.","COMPSCI 143A and COMPSCI 161. B.S. degree in Computer Science is also accepted. Recommended: COMPSCI 131 and COMPSCI 132 and COMPSCI 133."],"COMPSCI 213":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Visual Perception","Introduction to the process of human visual perception. Offers the physiological and psychophysical approach to understand vision, introducing concepts of perception of color, depth, movement. Examples of quantification and application of these models in computer vision, computer graphics, multimedia, HCI.","MATH 121A"],"COMPSCI 216":["COMPSCI","Image Understanding","The goal of image understanding is to extract useful semantic information from image data. Course covers low-level image and video processing techniques, feature descriptors, segmentation, objection recognition, and tracking.","I&C SCI 6D and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 6G or MATH 3A) and MATH 2B and I&C SCI 46"],"COMPSCI 217":["COMPSCI","Light and Geometry in Computer Vision","Examines the issues of light transport and multiview geometry in computer vision. Applications include camera calibration, 3D understanding, stereo reconstruction, and illumination estimation.","I&C SCI 6D and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 6G or MATH 3A) and MATH 2B and I&C SCI 46 and COMPSCI 211A"],"COMPSCI 219S":["COMPSCI","Seminar in Graphics and Visualization","Current research and research trends in computer graphics, visualization, virtual\/augmented reality, and other visual computing topics.",""],"COMPSCI 220P":["COMPSCI","Databases and Data Management","Introduction to the design of databases and the use of database management systems (DBMS) for managing and utilizing data. Topics include entity-relationship modeling for design, relational data model, relational algebra, relational schema design, and use of SQL (Structured Query Language).",""],"COMPSCI 221":["COMPSCI","Information Retrieval, Filtering, and Classification","Algorithms for the storage, retrieval, filtering, and classification of textual and multimedia data. The vector space model, Boolean and probabilistic queries, and relevance feedback. Latent semantic indexing; collaborative filtering; and relationship to machine learning methods.","COMPSCI 161 and COMPSCI 171 and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A or MATH 6G)"],"COMPSCI 222":["COMPSCI","Principles of Data Management","Covers fundamental principles underlying data management systems. Content includes key techniques including storage management, buffer management, record-oriented file system, access methods, query optimization, and query processing.","COMPSCI 122A and (I&C SCI 53 or COMPSCI 143A)"],"COMPSCI 222P":["COMPSCI","Principles of Data Management","Covers fundamental principles underlying data management systems. Understanding and implementation of key techniques including storage management, buffer management, record-oriented file system, access methods, query optimization, and query processing.","Required: C++ programming skills, understanding of data structures and algorithms."],"COMPSCI 223":["COMPSCI","Transaction Processing and Distributed Data Management","Covers fundamental principles underlying transaction processing including database consistency, concurrency control, database recovery, and fault-tolerance. Includes transaction processing in centralized, distributed, parallel, and client-server environments.","COMPSCI 222 and COMPSCI 131"],"COMPSCI 223P":["COMPSCI","Transaction Processing and Distributed Data Management","Introduction to fundamental principles underlying transaction processing systems including database consistency, atomicity, concurrency control, database recovery, replication, commit protocols, and fault-tolerance. Includes transaction processing in centralized, distributed, parallel, and client-server environments.","COMPSCI 222P or COMPSCI 222. COMPSCI 222P with a grade of B or better. COMPSCI 222 with a grade of B or better"],"COMPSCI 224P":["COMPSCI","Big Data Management","Focuses on Big Data management frameworks such as Hadoop and Spark. Also covers relational and non-relational database technologies, including document (\"NoSQL\") databases as well as emerging cloud data management solutions.","COMPSCI 220P or COMPSCI 122A. COMPSCI 220P with a grade of B or better. COMPSCI 122A with a grade of C or better"],"COMPSCI 225":["COMPSCI","Next Generation Search Systems","Discusses concepts and techniques related to all aspects of search systems. After considering basic search technology and the state-of-art systems, rapidly developing techniques for multimedia search, local search, event-search, and video-on-demand are explored.","I&C SCI 21 or CSE 21 or IN4MATX 41 or I&C SCI 31 or CSE 41"],"COMPSCI 230":["COMPSCI","Distributed Computer Systems","Principles of distributed computing systems. Topics covered include message-passing, remote procedure calls, distributed shared memory synchronization, resource and process\/thread management, distributed file systems, naming and security.",""],"COMPSCI 230P":["COMPSCI","Distributed Computer Systems  ","Principles of distributed computing systems. Topics covered include message-passing, remote procedure calls, distributed shared memory synchronization, resource and process\/thread management, distributed file systems, naming and security.",""],"COMPSCI 231P":["COMPSCI","Parallel and Distributed Computing for Professionals ","Covers a wide variety of concepts related to the design and application of high-performance concurrent computing systems, including architectural features, communications networks and models, parallel program development for numerical and non-numerical applications, programming models, and more.",""],"COMPSCI 232":["COMPSCI","Computer and Communication Networks","Network architecture of the Internet, telephone networks, cable networks, and cell phone networks. Network performance models. Network performance models. Advanced concepts and implementations of flow and congestion control, addressing, internetworking, forwarding, routing, multiple access, streaming, and quality-of-service.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"COMPSCI 232P":["COMPSCI","Computer and Communication Networks ","Internet architecture, protocols, and services. Advanced concepts of IP and TCP, including addressing, internetworking, forwarding, routing, and implementations of flow and congestion control. Internet services such as Network Address Translation and Domain Name Servers. Overview of Local Area Networks.",""],"COMPSCI 233":["COMPSCI","Networking Laboratory","A laboratory-based introduction to basic networking concepts such as addressing, sub-netting, bridging, ARP, and routing. Network simulation and design. Structured around weekly readings and laboratory assignments.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"COMPSCI 234":["COMPSCI","Advanced Networks","Design principles of networked systems, advanced routing and congestion control algorithms, network algorithms, network measurement, management, security, Internet economics, and emerging networks.","NET SYS 201 or COMPSCI 232 or EECS 248A"],"COMPSCI 236":["COMPSCI","Wireless and Mobile Networking","Introduction to wireless networking. The focus is on layers 2 and 3 of the OSI reference model, design, performance analysis, and protocols. Topics covered include: an introduction to wireless networking, digital cellular, next generation cellular, wireless LANs, and mobile IP.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"COMPSCI 237":["COMPSCI","Middleware for Networked and Distributed Systems","Discusses concepts, techniques, and issues in developing distributed systems middleware that provides high performance and Quality of Service for emerging applications. Also covers existing standards (e.g., CORBA, DCOM, Jini, Espeak) and their relative advantages and shortcomings.","An undergraduate-level course in operating systems and networks."],"COMPSCI 238":["COMPSCI","Advanced Operating Systems","Focuses on advanced and graduate-level topics in operating systems. Presents important recent developments in operating systems, topics not covered in undergraduate operating systems courses. This includes novel operating system designs and techniques to improve existing ones.","COMPSCI 143A"],"COMPSCI 238P":["COMPSCI","Operating Systems","In-depth organization of the core operating system abstraction and its implementation (virtual memory, kernel and user mode, system calls, threads, context switches, interrupts, inter-process communication, hardware interface, etc.) and a range of recent developments in de-facto industry standard operating systems.","Working knowledge of C and the Linux environment."],"COMPSCI 241":["COMPSCI","Advanced Compiler Construction","Advanced study of programming language implementation techniques: optimizations such as common sub-expression elimination, register allocation, and instruction scheduling. Implementation of language features such as type-directed dispatch, garbage collection, dynamic linking, and just-in-time code generation.","COMPSCI 142A"],"COMPSCI 242":["COMPSCI","Parallel Computing","Definition of parallel processing systems. Theory and application of arrays, trees, and hypercubes. Computational models, applications: sorting, integer arithmetic, matrix operations, Fast Fourier Transform, and others. Interconnection networks: a framework for the description, analysis, and construction of hypercube-derived networks.",""],"COMPSCI 242P":["COMPSCI","Compilers and Interpreters","Provides in-depth study of compilers and interpreters which are the primary forms of programming language processing in computing.","Knowledge of C++ programming is required."],"COMPSCI 243":["COMPSCI","High-Performance Architectures and Their Compilers","Emphasis on the development of automatic tools (i.e., compilers\/environments) for the efficient exploitation of parallel machines, and the trade-offs between hardware and software in the design of supercomputing and high-performance machines.",""],"COMPSCI 244":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Embedded and Ubiquitous Systems","Embedded and ubiquitous system technologies including processors, DSP, memory, and software. System interfacing basics; communication strategies; sensors and actuators, mobile and wireless technology. Using pre-designed hardware and software components. Design case studies in wireless, multimedia, and\/or networking domains.","I&C SCI 51 and COMPSCI 152 and COMPSCI 161 and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A or MATH 6G or I&C SCI 6D). B.S. degree in Computer Science is also accepted."],"COMPSCI 244P":["COMPSCI","Internet of Things","Develops a comprehensive understanding of the hardware and software technology, the communication protocols, and the security and privacy requirements underlying the Internet of Things ecosystem, particularly those using computing elements (processors, DSPs\/ ASIPs), sensors, and accessing cloud services.","Undergraduate-level familiarity with fundamentals of integrated circuit blocks, processors, optimization\/algorithm design, and some programming experience."],"COMPSCI 245":["COMPSCI","Software for Embedded Systems","Embedded computing elements, device interfaces, time-critical IO handling. Embedded software design under size, performance, and reliability constraints. Software timing and functional validation. Programming methods and compilation for embeddable software. Embedded runtime systems. Case studies of real-time software systems.","I&C SCI 51 and COMPSCI 152 and COMPSCI 161 and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A or MATH 6G or I&C SCI 6D). B.S. degree in Computer Science is also accepted."],"COMPSCI 247":["COMPSCI","Complex Software Systems: Project Course","Building complex systems software systems, such as Database Management Systems, Operating Systems, and Optimizing Compilers. Such systems often involve low-level programming and intricate performance optimizations. Students learn how to build such a system.","r corequisite: COMPSCI 222 or COMPSCI 238 or COMPSCI 241"],"COMPSCI 248A":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Ubiquitous Computing","The \"disappearing computer\" paradigm. Differences to the desktop computing model: applications, interaction in augmented environments, security, alternate media, small operating systems, sensors, and embedded systems design. Evaluation by project work and class participation.",""],"COMPSCI 248B":["COMPSCI","Ubiquitous Computing and Interaction","Principles and design techniques for ubiquitous computing applications. Conceptual basis for tangible and embodied interaction. Interaction in virtual and augmented environments. Design methods and techniques. Design case studies. Examination by project work.","IN4MATX 231 and IN4MATX 241"],"COMPSCI 250A":["COMPSCI","Computer Systems Architecture","Study of architectural issues and their relation to technology and software: design of processor, interconnections, and memory hierarchies.","COMPSCI 152"],"COMPSCI 250B":["COMPSCI"," Modern Computer Systems","Fundamental concepts and recent advances in computer systems architecture necessary to achieve high performance and efficiency on systems available today. Topics span modern processor features, accelerators, storage and network architectures, as well as architecture-optimized software.","Required: Undergraduate-level understanding of computer architecture concepts."],"COMPSCI 250P":["COMPSCI","Computer Systems Architecture ","Study of architectural issues and their relation to technology and software: design of processor, interconnections, and memory hierarchies.","Undergraduate-level familiarity with fundamentals of integrated circuit blocks, processors, and optimization\/algorithm design, and some programming experience."],"COMPSCI 253":["COMPSCI","Analysis of Programming Languages","Concepts in modern programming languages, their interaction, and the relationship between programming languages and methods for large-scale, extensible software development. Empirical analysis of programming language usage.",""],"COMPSCI 253P":["COMPSCI","Advanced Programming and Problem Solving","Provides in-depth preparation for industry interviews requiring demonstration of problem solving and programming skills. Emphasis is on understanding problem statements, considering edge cases, developing effective test cases, designing correct solutions, explaining these clearly, and implementing a solution correctly.",""],"COMPSCI 256":["COMPSCI","Systems and Machine Learning","Course is divided into two parts. The first half covers recent research in systems for machine learning (ML) that enabled rapid progress in ML\/AI. The second half revolves around application of machine learning in systems.","Recommended: An undergraduate machine-learning course and an undergraduate course in one of the following areas: networking, distributed systems, or operating systems. "],"COMPSCI 259S":["COMPSCI","Seminar in Design Science","Current research and research trends in design science. Forum for presentation and criticism by students of research work in progress.",""],"COMPSCI 260":["COMPSCI","Fundamentals of the Design and Analysis of Algorithms","Covers fundamental concepts in the design and analysis of algorithms and is geared toward non-specialists in theoretical computer science. Topics include: deterministic and randomized graph algorithms, fundamental algorithmic techniques like divide-and-conquer strategies and dynamic programming, and NP-completeness.","COMPSCI 161"],"COMPSCI 260P":["COMPSCI","Algorithms with Applications","Covers fundamental concepts in the design and analysis of algorithms and is geared toward practical application and implementation. Topics include greedy algorithms, deterministic and randomized graph algorithms, models of network flow, fundamental algorithmic techniques, and NP-completeness.",""],"COMPSCI 261":["COMPSCI","Data Structures","An in-depth treatment of data structures and their associated management algorithms including resource complexity analysis.","I&C SCI 46 and COMPSCI 161"],"COMPSCI 261P":["COMPSCI","Data Structures with Applications ","Data structures and their associated management algorithms, including their applications and analysis.",""],"COMPSCI 262P":["COMPSCI","Text Processing and Pattern Matching","Techniques for pattern matching and parsing character strings. Topics include substring searching, finite state machines, regular expressions, and context-free grammars, as well as applications in lexical analyzers, compilers, word processors, malware detectors, and search engines.",""],"COMPSCI 263":["COMPSCI","Analysis of Algorithms","Analysis of correctness and complexity of various efficient algorithms; discussion of problems for which no efficient solutions are known.","COMPSCI 161 and COMPSCI 261"],"COMPSCI 264":["COMPSCI","Quantum Computation and Information","Basic models for quantum computation and their foundations in quantum mechanics. Quantum complexity classes and quantum algorithms, including algorithms for factoring and quantum simulation. Introduction to quantum information theory and quantum entanglement.","Basic courses in linear algebra and algorithms."],"COMPSCI 265":["COMPSCI","Graph Algorithms","Graph definitions, representation methods, graph problems, algorithms, approximation methods, and applications.","COMPSCI 161 and COMPSCI 261"],"COMPSCI 266":["COMPSCI","Computational Geometry","An overview of some of the basic problems in computational geometry and of some algorithmic and data-structuring techniques appropriate to their solution.","COMPSCI 161 and COMPSCI 261"],"COMPSCI 268":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Optimization","A broad introduction to optimization. Unconstrained and constrained optimization. Equality and inequality constraints. Linear and integer programming. Stochastic dynamic programming.","STATS 67 or (STATS 7 and STATS 120A) and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A)"],"COMPSCI 268P":["COMPSCI","Optimization Modeling ","A broad introduction to optimization methods and their applications. Unconstrained and constrained optimization. Direct, first, and second order methods. Use of optimization software libraries. Equality and inequality constraints, optimal conditions, and methods. Applications to modeling in computer science, engineering.",""],"COMPSCI 269S":["COMPSCI","Seminar in the Theory of Algorithms and Data Structures","Current research and research trends in the Theory of algorithms and data structures.",""],"COMPSCI 271":["COMPSCI","Introduction to Artificial Intelligence","The study of theories and computational models for systems which behave and act in an intelligent manner. Fundamental subdisciplines of artificial intelligence including knowledge representation, search, deduction, planning, probabilistic reasoning, natural language parsing and comprehension, knowledge-based systems, and learning.",""],"COMPSCI 271P":["COMPSCI","Artificial Intelligence","The study of theories and computational models for systems which behave and act in an intelligent manner. Fundamental sub-disciplines of artificial intelligence, including knowledge representation, search, deduction, planning, probabilistic reasoning, natural language parsing and comprehension, knowledge-based systems, and learning.",""],"COMPSCI 272":["COMPSCI","Statistical Natural Language Processing","Statistical models, machine learning algorithms, and computational tasks involved in natural language processing. Focuses on approaches that learn these models from data, and covers applications such as information extraction, dialog systems, machine translation, and question answering.","COMPSCI 171 and COMPSCI 178"],"COMPSCI 273A":["COMPSCI","Machine Learning","Computational approaches to learning algorithms for classifications, regression, and clustering. Emphasis is on discriminative classification methods such as decision trees, rules, nearest neighbor, linear models, and naive Bayes.","COMPSCI 271 and COMPSCI 206"],"COMPSCI 273P":["COMPSCI","Machine Learning and Data Mining ","Introduction to principles of machine learning and data-mining. Learning algorithms for classifications, regression, and clustering. Emphasis is on discriminative classification methods such as decision trees, rules, nearest neighbor, linear models, and naive Bayes.","Required: Python programming knowledge."],"COMPSCI 274A":["COMPSCI","Probablistic Learning: Theory and Algorithms","An introduction to probabilistic and statistical techniques for learning from data, including parameter estimation, density estimation, regression, classification, and mixture modeling.","COMPSCI 206"],"COMPSCI 274B":["COMPSCI","Learning in Graphical Models","Models for data analysis are presented in the unifying framework of graphical models. The emphasis is on learning from data but inference is also covered. Real world examples are used to illustrate the material.","COMPSCI 274A"],"COMPSCI 274C":["COMPSCI","Neural Networks and Deep Learning","Neural network and deep learning from multiple perspectives. Theory of parallel distributed processing systems, algorithmic approaches for learning from data in various manners, applications to difficult problems in AI from computer vision, to natural language understanding, to bioinformatics and chemoinformatics.","(STATS 120A and STATS 120B) or MATH 121A or COMPSCI 178 or COMPSCI 273A"],"COMPSCI 274D":["COMPSCI","Artificial Intelligence Frontiers: Technical, Ethical, and Societal","Explores the frontiers of artificial intelligence and related technologies with a focus on the underlying ethical, legal, and societal challenges and opportunities they create.  Encourages critical thinking about these issues.","Recommended: COMPSCI 172B and COMPSCI 178."],"COMPSCI 274E":["COMPSCI","Deep Generative Models","Discusses probabilistic approaches to deep learning such as generative models and their applications in computer vision, NLP, the natural sciences, and other fields. Coursework may include both homework and project components.","COMPSCI 178 or COMPSCI 273A or STATS 120B. Recommended: Advanced machine learning or graphical models courses such as COMPSCI 274A or COMPSCI 274B or CS 273C or COMPSCI 276."],"COMPSCI 274P":["COMPSCI","Neural Networks and Deep Learning","Introduction to principles of machine learning and neural networks. Architecture design. Feedforward and recurrent networks. Learning models and algorithms.  Applications to data analysis and prediction problems in areas such as machine vision, natural language processing, biomed, and finance.","COMPSCI 271P. COMPSCI 271P with a grade of B or better. Required: Knowledge of Python programming. "],"COMPSCI 275":["COMPSCI","Network-Based Reasoning\/Constraint Networks","Study of the theory and techniques of constraint network model. Covers techniques for solving constraint satisfaction problems: backtracking techniques, consistency algorithms, and structure-based techniques. Tractable subclasses. Extensions into applications such as temporal reasoning, diagnosis, and scheduling.","Basic course in algorithm design and analysis."],"COMPSCI 275P":["COMPSCI","Graphical Models and Statistical Learning","Introduction to principles of statistical machine learning with probabilistic graphical models. Studies efficient inference algorithms based on optimization-based variational methods, and simulation-based Monte Carlo methods. Several approaches to learning from data are covered.","COMPSCI 273P. Required: Python programming experience."],"COMPSCI 276":["COMPSCI","Reasoning in Probabilistic Graphical Models","Focuses on algorithms for probabilistic reasoning using graphical models such as Bayesian Networks and Markov Networks that encode knowledge as local probabilistic relations. Tasks include finding most likely scenarios over a subset of variables, or updating posterior probability, given observations.","A basic course in probability."],"COMPSCI 277":["COMPSCI","Control and Reinforcement Learning","Introduction to learning agents that make sequences of decisions to interact with a system and control it. The main focus is reinforcement learning from a reward signal, with emphasis on algorithms that can learn differentiable policy parametrizations (Deep Reinforcement Learning).","COMPSCI 178 or COMPSCI 273A. Recommended: COMPSCI 274A and CS 275B and CS 275C and COMPSCI 276."],"COMPSCI 278":["COMPSCI","Probability Models","Advanced probability, discrete time Markov chains, Poisson processes, continuous time Markov chains. Queuing or simulation as time permits.","STATS 120A"],"COMPSCI 284A":["COMPSCI","Artificial Intelligence in Biology and Medicine","Introduction to computational methods in molecular biology, aimed at those interested in learning about this interdisciplinary area. Covers computational approaches to understanding and predicting the structure, function, interactions, and evolution of DNA, RNA, proteins, and related molecules and processes.","A Basic course in algorithms or a basic course in molecular biology."],"COMPSCI 284C":["COMPSCI","Computational Systems Biology","Computational inference and modeling of gene regulation networks, signal transduction pathways, and the effects of regulatory networks in cellular processes, development, and disease. Introduction of required mathematical, computational, and data handling tools.","COMPSCI 284A or (BIO SCI 99 and MATH 2D)"],"COMPSCI 288":["COMPSCI","Algorithms for Matching Markets","Discusses algorithms underlying matching markets, drawing ideas from CS theory, economics, and game-theory. Topics include Gale-Shapley stable-matching algorithm, its incentive compatibility and LP formulation; online bipartite matching and Adwords market; one-sided matching markets; and market equilibria.","Recommended: COMPSCI 263 and COMPSCI 295 (when the topic title is Game Theory), or a course on linear programming, or working knowledge of LP-duality theory. "],"COMPSCI 290":["COMPSCI","Research Seminar","Forum for presentation and criticism by students of research work in progress. Presentation of problem areas and related work. Specific goals and progress of research.",""],"COMPSCI 294P":["COMPSCI","Keystone Professional Writing and Communication for Computer Science Careers","Well-developed written and oral communication skills relevant to computer science professionals including oral presentations, short descriptive writing assignments, and one longer writing assignment related to a research replication project.",""],"COMPSCI 295":["COMPSCI","Special Topics in Information and Computer Science ","Studies in selected areas of Information and Computer Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"COMPSCI 295P":["COMPSCI","Keystone Project for Computer Science","Design and development of a software system or a hardware component of a system based on knowledge of advanced computer science principles. Students implement at least a working prototype and test this using relevant input data.",""],"COMPSCI 296":["COMPSCI","Elements of Scientific Writing","Introduces the concepts and principles of good scientific writing, demonstrates them by examples drawn from the literature, and uses a hands-on approach to apply them to documents being written by the participants.",""],"COMPSCI 296P":["COMPSCI","Capstone Professional Writing and Communication for Computer Science Careers ","Written and oral communication for computer science and IT careers. Production of the detailed design and development document for the concurrent capstone design class and refinement of written documents and oral communications skills needed for a successful job search.",""],"COMPSCI 297P":["COMPSCI","Capstone Design Project for Computer Science ","Design and development of app, software system, or hardware component of system based on students' prior knowledge of advanced computer science principles. Implement at least a working prototype and test this using relevant use cases and\/or input data.",""],"COMPSCI 298":["COMPSCI","Thesis Supervision","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the M.S. thesis option or the dissertation requirements for the Ph.D. program.",""],"COMPSCI 298P":["COMPSCI","Computer Science Practicum","Internship in which students work individually at an outside organization to gain experience with the challenges involved in technology-related work.",""],"COMPSCI 299":["COMPSCI","Individual Study","Individual research or investigation with Computer Science faculty.",""],"COMPSCI 299P":["COMPSCI","Individual Study","Supervised individual study in computer science.",""],"CRM\/LAW C7":["CRM\/LAW","Introduction to Criminology, Law and Society ","Introduces characteristics of the U.S. criminal justice system, including responses to crime, components of the system, and current challenges to the system. Examines structure and function of police and courts, criminal procedure, and sentencing and incarceration policies.",""],"CRM\/LAW C10":["CRM\/LAW","Fundamentals of Criminology, Law and Society ","Introduces three interdisciplinary literatures: criminology, socio-legal studies, and justice studies. Focuses on theoretical and empirical work addressing law making, law breaking, and legal systems.",""],"CRM\/LAW H80":["CRM\/LAW","The Properties of Property","Develops an understanding and critique of private property. Draws from interdisciplinary sources to explore the foundations of private property, the institutions that support it over time, and possible alternatives to it.",""],"CRM\/LAW C100":["CRM\/LAW","Special Topics in Criminology, Law and Society","Course content varies with interest of the instructor.",""],"CRM\/LAW C101":["CRM\/LAW","American Law","Introduction to substantive and procedural law governing private dispute resolution, including common law (tort, property, contracts), lawsuits (civil procedure), and alternative dispute resolution; emphasis on the socio-legal ramifications of private disputes, particularly the modern tort system and tort reform movement.",""],"CRM\/LAW C102":["CRM\/LAW","Introduction to the Comparative Study of Legal Cultures","Traces the anthropological and comparative cultural study of law from the nineteenth century to the present; briefly surveys the diversity of recorded legal cultures and critically examines key concepts which have been used to describe and classify them.",""],"CRM\/LAW C103":["CRM\/LAW","US Legal Thought","Evolution of legal thought in socio-historical context from 19th century to present; emphasizes the rise and fall of legal classicism and modern socio-legal critiques, including the law and society movement, critical legal studies, feminist legal theory, and critical race studies.",""],"CRM\/LAW C104":["CRM\/LAW","Sociology of Law","Examines law creation and law enforcement in their social and political context. Discusses the major theories of law and the modern state, and presents case studies in order to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of these theoretical perspectives.",""],"CRM\/LAW C105":["CRM\/LAW","Psychology and the Law","Psychological assumptions of the American legal system and mental health aspects of provision of criminal justice services. Civil commitment, insanity defense, competence to stand trial, jury selection, eyewitness identification. Use of police, courts, correctional institutions in prevention of behavior disorder.",""],"CRM\/LAW C106":["CRM\/LAW","Crime and Public Policy","Explores nature and dimensions of crime in America and uses and limits of various strategies to control it. Topics include growth of imprisonment, the problem of domestic violence, the death penalty, gun control, and the potential of crime prevention programs.",""],"CRM\/LAW C107":["CRM\/LAW","Deviance","Perspectives on deviance and criminality in behavior, institution, community, and myth. The suitability of contemporary theories of deviant behavior.",""],"CRM\/LAW C108":["CRM\/LAW","Criminological Theory","Explores the question of crime causation from a number of theoretical perspectives in the social sciences. Schools of thought examined include utilitarianism, positivism, human ecology, social structural approaches, social process (learning) theories, labeling, and radical-critical (political) perspectives.",""],"CRM\/LAW C109":["CRM\/LAW","Juvenile Delinquency","Patterns of delinquent behavior, theories that explain behavior, current research aimed at enhancing exploratory power. Attempts to prevent and control delinquency are put in historical perspective. Development of the current juvenile justice system and evolution of modern juvenile law.",""],"CRM\/LAW C110":["CRM\/LAW","Community Context of Crime","Examines the social context of high-crime communities, with special emphasis on the problems of poverty, joblessness, economic inequality, and racial discrimination. Assesses debates on the causes of these problems, and on the most effective policies to combat them.",""],"CRM\/LAW C111":["CRM\/LAW","Theories of Punishment","Survey of the various schools of thought regarding formal punishment theory. The purposes of legal sanctions are examined, including those of deterrence, rehabilitation, retribution, and incapacitation. Considers problems in realizing formal goals of punishment in practice.",""],"CRM\/LAW C112":["CRM\/LAW","Legal Sanctions and Social Control","Examination of criminal sanctions as mechanisms of social control. Includes the nature, function, and organization of courts as sanction generating institutions, and problems associated with punishing white-collar and corporate illegalities.",""],"CRM\/LAW C113":["CRM\/LAW","Gender and Social Control","Examines the legal system's use of sex as an organizing characteristic, focusing particularly on sameness and difference feminism, and tracing the evolution of equal treatment of men and women in the areas of constitutional rights, employment, education, and military service.",""],"CRM\/LAW C114":["CRM\/LAW","Miscarriages of Justice","Systematically describes, explains, and analyzes the causes and consequences of the wrongful accusation, prosecution, incarceration, and sometimes even execution, of the innocent in the American criminal justice system.",""],"CRM\/LAW C115":["CRM\/LAW","Prisons, Punishment, and Corrections","A review of how the U.S. punishes and rehabilitates convicted law violators. The conflicts among the major purposes of sentencing--rehabilitation, deterrence, incapacitation--are discussed, as well as the effects of different sanctions on public safety, offender rehabilitation, and justice system costs.",""],"CRM\/LAW C116":["CRM\/LAW","Race, Ethnicity, and Social Control","Provides a historical and sociological survey of racial and ethnic group relations in contexts of crime control, emphasizing the roles of racial ideology, structural racism, and social movements in shaping these dynamic relations, and their significance to American liberal democracy.",""],"CRM\/LAW C117":["CRM\/LAW","Imprisonment and Reentry","Offers an overview of imprisonment and reentry in the contemporary United States. Examines the development of the prison in the United States and explores changes in its composition, structure, and purpose over time.",""],"CRM\/LAW C118":["CRM\/LAW","Domestic Violence","General perspectives about domestic violence and theoretical accounts about what causes such behavior.",""],"CRM\/LAW C119":["CRM\/LAW","Violence in Intimate Relationships","Responses to various forms of domestic violence, such as intimate partner violence and child abuse. Covers barriers to reporting to the police, and prosecutors and courts. Human services, such as safety planning for victims, treatment programs, and restorative justice approaches.",""],"CRM\/LAW C120":["CRM\/LAW","Law and Inequality","Various aspects of the law as related to three specific areas of inequality: immigration and immigrants, race, and gender. The role of law as a tool of social reform and limitations of the legal system historically in resolving inequality issues.",""],"CRM\/LAW C122":["CRM\/LAW","Constitutional Law","Examines the evolution of civil liberties and individual rights in the United States, focusing on how Constitutional Amendments and U.S. Supreme Court decision-making have shaped the ongoing political and legal struggles over issues such as privacy, abortion, and free speech.",""],"CRM\/LAW C123":["CRM\/LAW","Family Law","Examines legal issues surrounding marriage, cohabitation, divorce, child custody and support, adoption, and the rights of parents and children in the family context. The findings of social science research are used to illuminate the legal issues.",""],"CRM\/LAW C124":["CRM\/LAW","Mental Health and the Justice System","Covers the history of criminalization of persons with mental illness; challenges and needs; civil and outpatient commitment; law enforcement responses; mentally ill in jails and prisons; community supervision strategies; and reentry strategies for offenders with mental illness.",""],"CRM\/LAW C126":["CRM\/LAW","Drugs, Crime, and Social Control","Implementation of drug crime policy in the U.S.; historical views of U.S. social control and crime policies. Students critically examine drugs and crime research and policy, with attention to causal rigor and how policies interact with and affect socioeconomic conditions.",""],"CRM\/LAW C127":["CRM\/LAW","Hate Crimes","Examines the causes, manifestations, and consequences of hate crimes and the larger social context within which they occur. The politics and dynamics of intergroup violence born of bigotry and manifested as discrimination; social policy designed to control bias-motivated violence.",""],"CRM\/LAW C128":["CRM\/LAW","Environmental Law and Policy ","Environmental law as a combination of traditional legal principles and newly created statutes, rules, and decisions applied to environmental protection. Investigates roles of courts, legislature, executive branch and administrative agencies, and private citizens attempting to regulate environmental quality.",""],"CRM\/LAW C130":["CRM\/LAW","Seminar on Gangs","An overview of gangs, including the nature and definition of gangs; types of gangs; diversity of membership; theoretical explanations; criminal behavior; drug use and sales; law enforcement responses; gangs in correctional institutions; intervention and prevention strategies; and public policy issues.",""],"CRM\/LAW C131":["CRM\/LAW","Organized Crime and American Society","Examination of the phenomenon of American organized crime from a sociological perspective. Explanation of methods by which organized crime is tolerated at various levels of society. Emphasis on ways in which \"underworld\" interests interact with legitimate economic and political institutions.",""],"CRM\/LAW C132":["CRM\/LAW","Forensic Science, Law, and Society","Examines use of \"forensic science\" to resolve issues arising in criminal cases including crime scene analysis, DNA testing, fingerprints, trace evidence comparisons, profiling, lie detectors, other forensic techniques; evaluation, statistical characterization, and legal admissibility of evidence; regulation of forensic laboratories.",""],"CRM\/LAW C133":["CRM\/LAW","Homicide and Suicide","Examines similarities and differences among homicide and suicide, two major causes of death.",""],"CRM\/LAW C134":["CRM\/LAW","Victimless Crimes","Examines major theoretical, empirical, and policy-oriented research related to the design, implementation, and analysis of government intervention, through the criminal sanction, in the spheres of vice and morality.",""],"CRM\/LAW C135":["CRM\/LAW","Mass Incarceration and Social Inequality in America","Explores the origins and consequences of mass incarceration; extraordinarily high incarceration rates within particular demographic groups above and beyond historical levels in the U.S. Theoretical explanations for, and current policy debates around, mass incarceration are covered.",""],"CRM\/LAW C136":["CRM\/LAW","Forensic Psychology: Advanced Seminar","Focuses on the psychology of criminal offending, particularly violent behavior. Examines violence, sexual offending, and mental disorder related to crime with regard to clinical assessment and treatment; mental health services within forensic institutions.","(PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYCH 7A or PSYCH 9C) and PSCI 102C and (PSCI 178S or CRM\/LAW C149)"],"CRM\/LAW C138":["CRM\/LAW","Media Effects on Law and Justice ","Examines theoretical and methodological frameworks necessary for understanding mass media effects. Trains students to analyze and create media content that cover a wide array of law and justice topics, such as criminal trial procedures, coerced confessions, and mass incarceration.",""],"CRM\/LAW C139":["CRM\/LAW","Police and Change","Organizational efforts to modify police conduct are addressed by focusing on the history of policing in the United States including training, education, and the contributions of women.",""],"CRM\/LAW C140":["CRM\/LAW","Surveillance and Society","Explores the development and deployment of surveillance technologies in contemporary society. The social and legal impact of surveillance technologies, in such areas as crime control, privacy, trust, community, democracy, and the war on terror.",""],"CRM\/LAW C141":["CRM\/LAW","Anthropology of Law ","Introduces the anthropological study of law through a focus on the foundations of this subfield, its primary methodologies, and several important topics of inquiry, including policing, immigration, and structural inequalities. Provides an international perspective on law and society.",""],"CRM\/LAW C142":["CRM\/LAW","White-Collar Crime","Examines criminal activity in business and corporate enterprise, organizations, and the professions. Theories regarding the causes and control of white-collar and corporate crime are covered as well as the numerous definitions of these terms.",""],"CRM\/LAW C144":["CRM\/LAW","Criminal Law","Deals specifically with the substantive nature of criminal law and its historical development. Focuses on understanding the development of fundamental doctrinal principles upon which criminal law is based, including mens rea, actus reus, homicide, causation, group criminality, and exculpation.",""],"CRM\/LAW C145":["CRM\/LAW","Government Crime","Examines the legal, organizational, and political issues involved in the generation and control of government lawlessness. Readings present historical and theoretical perspectives in the abuse of government authority and the ability of the legal system to control such behavior.",""],"CRM\/LAW C149":["CRM\/LAW","Violence in Society","Current theory and research on aggression; anger and violence as problems in individual and social functioning. Process and functions of anger examined with regard to normal behavior and psychopathology. The determinants, prevalence, and implications of violence in society are analyzed.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYCH 7A or PSYCH 9C."],"CRM\/LAW C150":["CRM\/LAW","The Legal Profession","Role of the legal profession in modern society, the diverse professional roles lawyers play, the American legal profession compared with that of other societies. \"Litigation explosion,\" ethical problems, interactions between lawyers and other professionals, training and socialization of new lawyers.",""],"CRM\/LAW C160":["CRM\/LAW","Forensic Psychology  ","Forensic psychology is the interface between clinical psychology and the law. Emphasizes clinically relevant legal topics (insanity defense; competency to stand trial) and includes critical thinking about issues that arise when psychologists are involved in legal proceedings.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSCI 11C."],"CRM\/LAW C162":["CRM\/LAW","Crime Hotspots","Criminological theories of local public safety hazards or hotspots are introduced. Spatial statistics are developed for different types of hotspots. Hotspot policing theories are introduced and research on the effectiveness of policing strategies is reviewed.",""],"CRM\/LAW C163":["CRM\/LAW","Ethics and Politics of Justice","Theoretical perspective on how ethics and politics relate to criminal justice through an introduction to moral philosophy; consideration of specific theories of punishment and justice; and consideration of practical and empirical illustrations of the intersection of ethics, politics, and justice.",""],"CRM\/LAW C164":["CRM\/LAW","Social Control of Delinquency","Assumes familiarity with theories of delinquency, the juvenile justice system, and elements of juvenile law. Explores socio-historical origins and evolution of juvenile justice, current research and policy on delinquency prevention and treatment, and future directions of law, policy, and practice.","Recommended: CRM\/LAW C109."],"CRM\/LAW C165":["CRM\/LAW","The Death Penalty","Examines why the U.S. continues to have a death penalty when so many other countries have abandoned it. Arguments for and against the death penalty are covered.",""],"CRM\/LAW C166":["CRM\/LAW","Spatial Criminology","Scholars have long noted crime events exhibit a spatial patterning. The principal theoretical perspectives that attempt to explain such a spatial patterning, as well as the research methods used to study crime in spatial context are considered.",""],"CRM\/LAW C167":["CRM\/LAW","Crime Measurement","The strengths and weaknesses of three crime measures (police reports, victim surveys, and offender self-reports) are illustrated through analyses of research articles. Common measurement problems are analyzed with a focus on reliability and validity.",""],"CRM\/LAW C168":["CRM\/LAW","Extreme Punishment   ","Explores the history and law of America's Eighth Amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment, examining the death penalty, long prison sentences, harsh confinement conditions, and other punishments. Students debate practical, legal, and moral arguments for and against these punishments.",""],"CRM\/LAW C169W":["CRM\/LAW","Advanced Research Methods","For students planning to conduct senior research projects or apply to graduate school in social research fields. Topics include reviewing literature, preparing a research proposal, protecting human subjects, citing scholarly work, building measures, estimating sample size, interview and presentation skills.","SOCECOL 10 and SOCECOL 13. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"CRM\/LAW C172":["CRM\/LAW","Culture Change and the Mexican People","Reviews culture contact and colonization, innovation diffusion, acculturation, assimilation, culture conflict and marginality, modernization, urbanization, legal transformations. Mexico and the Southwestern U.S. are reviewed through several centuries to better appreciate the indigenous base of the Mexican people.",""],"CRM\/LAW C174":["CRM\/LAW","Immigration and Crime","Examines immigration and crime in the global context, highlighting immigrants as criminals and victims; immigration and crime control; immigrants' perceptions of the criminal justice system; public discourse and public perception on immigration and crime; and human rights issues.",""],"CRM\/LAW C175":["CRM\/LAW","Issues in Policing","Lectures and readings focus on the history and strategies of policing, measuring the quality of policing, and police misconduct. Strategies for enhancing the quality of policing for controlling misconduct are covered.",""],"CRM\/LAW C176":["CRM\/LAW","Classics in Crime Cinema","A multidimensional understanding of crime films and how they shape public thinking about crime and criminals.",""],"CRM\/LAW C177":["CRM\/LAW","Eyewitness Testimony","Faulty eyewitness testimony is a major cause of wrongful convictions. Covers the fast-growing topic of eyewitness testimony and memory for real-world events, both how psychologists study eyewitness capacity, and how the legal system has dealt with eyewitness issues.","SOCECOL 10"],"CRM\/LAW C178":["CRM\/LAW","Critical Race Theory","Introduction to Critical Race Theory and key American cases on racial inequality. Using this literature, examines the possibilities and pitfalls of legal claims of race, gender, and sexuality discrimination in the age of colorblindness.",""],"CRM\/LAW C179":["CRM\/LAW","Race and Incarceration","Examines the racial politics of mass incarceration through historical, empirical, theoretical, and legal frameworks. Focuses on race, gender, and sexual differences to develop a critique on policing, incarceration, and other forms of punishment.",""],"CRM\/LAW C180":["CRM\/LAW","Power, Constructions of Deviance, and Social Control ","Examines the forms and limits of power in the construction of social deviants. Theories of state power are covered to understand the prison system as a contemporary driver of social inequality. The collateral consequences of mass incarceration are discussed.",""],"CRM\/LAW C182":["CRM\/LAW","Illegal Economics","How illegal firms function in illegal markets, why individuals participate in these groups and markets, and what federal, state, and local governments do to disrupt organized illegal activity.",""],"CRM\/LAW C183":["CRM\/LAW","Controversies, Courts, Cultures: The Anthropology of Law","Assesses the contributions anthropology has made to legal scholarship, reviewing historical and contemporary themes. Considers both comparative questions of law's norms, structures, and practices around the globe, and the specific insights anthropology offers about contemporary U.S. law.",""],"CRM\/LAW C184":["CRM\/LAW","Economics of Criminal Justice","Provides an introduction to the economics of crime literature.","ECON 122A or ECON 123A"],"CRM\/LAW C186":["CRM\/LAW","Social Media and The Law","Examines legal and policy issues raised by the rise of social media. Surveys how social networking platforms and other emerging technologies impact the right to privacy, public perceptions of judicial systems, and the law generally.",""],"CRM\/LAW C187":["CRM\/LAW","Undocumented Immigrant Experiences","Examines the experiences of undocumented immigrants and the policies that structure their educational, economic, social, and political participation.",""],"CRM\/LAW C190":["CRM\/LAW","Applied Statistics in Social and Behavioral Research","Covers statistical techniques used to describe and make generalizations about phenomena represented by data. Hands-on experience in data analysis and interpretation using statistical software (SPSS, STATA) is emphasized. Topics include data visualization, ANOVA, multiple regression, and categorical data analyses.","SOCECOL 13"],"CRM\/LAW C191":["CRM\/LAW","Law and Modernity","The rise and spread of Enlightenment legal traditions, social contract theory, individual rights, ideologies of \"liberty, equality, fraternity\"; contradictions of liberal law, its understandings of \"primitive\" and \"civilized\"; pervasive myths of property, difference, race, and rights. Reading- and writing-intensive.",""],"CRM\/LAW C196":["CRM\/LAW","Research Seminar in Criminology, Law and Society","Special topics research seminar. Content varies with interest of instructor. Capstone research opportunity with Criminology, Law and Society faculty members.",""],"CRM\/LAW C201":["CRM\/LAW","Research Methods","An introduction to techniques of inductive methodologies, including qualitative interviewing and participant observation, and deductive methodologies, including survey research and experimental and quasi-experimental design. Provides a sound overview of research methodology with tools to pursue specific methods in greater depth.",""],"CRM\/LAW C202":["CRM\/LAW","Research Methods II","Covers qualitative approaches (interview strategies, varieties of ethnography, archival and historical methods, etc.) and quantitative approaches (survey methods, experimental designs, secondary data sets, comparative and international data, etc.), and concludes with mixed-method approaches.","CRM\/LAW C201. CRM\/LAW C201 with a grade of B or better"],"CRM\/LAW C203A":["CRM\/LAW","Qualitative Methods Practicum","Designed to deepen students' familiarity with qualitative research strategies and to guide them through the initial stages of their Second Year Project requirement, such as the development of an original research proposal and\/or a research instrument.","CRM\/LAW C202. CRM\/LAW C202 with a grade of B or better"],"CRM\/LAW C203B":["CRM\/LAW","Quantitative Methods Practicum","Deepens familiarity with quantitative research and provides a foundation for the second-year paper, e.g., initial models for data analysis and\/or a replication study. Students evaluate what assumptions are necessary for credible inference in different evaluation approaches.","CRM\/LAW C202. CRM\/LAW C202 with a grade of B or better"],"CRM\/LAW C207":["CRM\/LAW","Land-Use Law","Investigates legal and institutional frameworks for development control. Review of constitutional issues implicated in land-use regulation. Traces development control historically and analyzes contemporary approaches to land-use control which reflect environmental and economic development concerns.",""],"CRM\/LAW C210":["CRM\/LAW","Introduction to Criminology, Law and Society","Familiarizes students with the interrelated fields of criminology, law and society studies, and criminal justice studies. Organized around three well-established interdisciplinary literatures: criminology, sociolegal studies, and criminal justice studies.",""],"CRM\/LAW C211":["CRM\/LAW","Legal Institutions and Society","Acquaints students with the institutions of U.S. legal system and its operations, as well as with the constitutional framework undergirding this system, and defines the relationship between U.S. citizens and government at a variety of levels.",""],"CRM\/LAW C212":["CRM\/LAW","Policing","Introduces the subject of policing. Topics include the management of police organizations, the effectiveness of police patrol strategies, the experiences of women in policing, the recruitment and retention of police officers, and other related topics.",""],"CRM\/LAW C213":["CRM\/LAW","Crime and Social Deviance"," Examines the major social scientific perspectives on criminal and deviant behavior. Specific deviant and criminal activities are described and explained using established theoretical frameworks.",""],"CRM\/LAW C214":["CRM\/LAW","Research Methods","Structures research methodology, the approach to developing and evaluating knowledge of the sciences for use in criminal justice professional activities. Special emphasis on differentiating scientific approaches from pseudo-science.",""],"CRM\/LAW C215":["CRM\/LAW","Applied Statistics","Provides a basis for the use of fundamental statistical analysis techniques for solving public policy and management problems through a series of assignments, examinations, and online discussions and demonstrations.",""],"CRM\/LAW C216":["CRM\/LAW","Public Policy, Crime, and Criminal Justice","Increases understanding of crime, violence, and the criminal justice system. Assesses the state of knowledge on key policy issues of our time. Discusses the contribution of communities, schools, employment, drugs, guns, and alcohol to crime and violence.",""],"CRM\/LAW C217":["CRM\/LAW","Leadership","Introduces concepts, ideas, and theories about leadership and its operation. Explores leadership concepts through interviews with leaders from the community and fellow classmates.",""],"CRM\/LAW C218":["CRM\/LAW","Social Problems, Law, and Policy","Capstone course for M.A.S. program in Criminology, Law and Society. Students choose a social problem related to crime, criminal justice, and law; relate the problem to legal and social issues; and devise a plan of action to research the problem.",""],"CRM\/LAW C219":["CRM\/LAW","Hate Crime","Examines the causes, manifestations, and consequences of hate crimes, as well as the larger social context within which they occur, are reacted to, and seem to be proliferating.",""],"CRM\/LAW C221":["CRM\/LAW","Sentencing and Corrections","Reviews U.S. attempts to punish and rehabilitate convicted law violators. Conflicts among major purposes of sentencing (rehabilitation, deterrence, incapacitation, and retribution) are discussed, as well as effects of different sanctions on public safety, offender rehabilitation, and justice system costs.",""],"CRM\/LAW C222":["CRM\/LAW","Ethnography","Explores the theory and practice of ethnography with a focus on anthropology, the discipline most associated with ethnography. Students are exposed to the theoretical underpinnings of ethnographic work, traditional and innovative practices, and sample ethnographies.",""],"CRM\/LAW C226":["CRM\/LAW","Causal Methods for Policy Analysis","Provides students with hands-on experience using existing data to estimate the impact of policy and law on individual behavior or aggregate social outcomes. Covers different econometric strategies used to identify causal effects in the absence of an experiment.",""],"CRM\/LAW C228":["CRM\/LAW","Criminology: Micro Approaches","Introduces students to the dominant theories in modern criminology, their theoretical antecedents and extensions, major empirical tests and implications for programs, policy and practice, and focuses on micro-level, individual theories of crime causation. Formerly Criminology, Law and Society C233A.",""],"CRM\/LAW C229":["CRM\/LAW","Criminology: Macro Approaches","Introduces students to the dominant theories in modern criminology, their theoretical antecedents and extensions, major empirical tests and implications for programs, policy and practices, and addresses macro-level theories of crime causation. Formerly Criminology, Law and Society C233B.",""],"CRM\/LAW C231":["CRM\/LAW","Crime and Gender    ","Examines the legal, political, social, economic, and policy implications of making gender (primarily) and race (secondarily) the focus in the study of crime, criminal law, and the criminal justice system.",""],"CRM\/LAW C234":["CRM\/LAW","Anthropology of Law","Law has been a key site of anthropological inquiry since the discipline's nineteenth-century origins. Course introduces and critically assesses the contributions anthropology has made to sociolegal lytic trends.",""],"CRM\/LAW C238":["CRM\/LAW","White-Collar Crime","Examines the illegal behavior of individuals who commit crimes in the course of their employment. Special attention will be paid to ways in which power and organizational structure affect the behavior of the white-collar offenders.",""],"CRM\/LAW C239A":["CRM\/LAW","Law and Society I","Provides an introduction to the law and society field from its origins in social scientific, legal, and philosophical scholarship during the eighteenth, nineteenth, and early-twentieth centuries. Formerly Criminology, Law, and Society C239.",""],"CRM\/LAW C239B":["CRM\/LAW","Law and Society II","Building on Law and Society I, addresses contemporary issues in the field from mid-twentieth century to the present with emphasis on the degree to which the field's foundational assumptions are being challenged, refined, or confirmed through current research.","CRM\/LAW C239A"],"CRM\/LAW C240A":["CRM\/LAW","Socio-Legal Workshop","Designed to foster intellectual discussion, encourage practice and skill-building in providing feedback, and build substantive knowledge of legal scholarship, this workshop is for both law and doctoral students across campus who are interested in interdisciplinary approaches to studying law.",""],"CRM\/LAW C240B":["CRM\/LAW","Socio-Legal Workshop","Designed to foster intellectual discussion, encourage practice and skill-building in providing feedback, and build substantive knowledge of legal scholarship, this workshop is for both law and doctoral students across campus who are interested in interdisciplinary approaches to studying law.","CRM\/LAW C240A"],"CRM\/LAW C240C":["CRM\/LAW","Socio-Legal Workshop","Designed to foster intellectual discussion, encourage practice and skill-building in providing feedback, and build substantive knowledge of legal scholarship, this workshop is for both law and doctoral students across campus who are interested in interdisciplinary approaches to studying law.","CRM\/LAW C240B. CRM\/LAW C240B with a grade of B or better"],"CRM\/LAW C242":["CRM\/LAW","Crime Hotspots","Focuses on the criminological theory of hotspots, beginning with the \"when, where, and why\" questions and ending with the practical policing strategies that have been developed to mitigate hotspot public safety hazards.",""],"CRM\/LAW C248":["CRM\/LAW","Geographic Information Systems","Prepares students to become proficient in the basic GIS functionality including visualization, data management, and spatial analysis.",""],"CRM\/LAW C250":["CRM\/LAW","Preventing Errors of Justice","Examines the types of errors that are made in the U.S. criminal justice system and how we might prevent these errors, including failures to convict guilty offenders as well as wrongful convictions of the innocent.",""],"CRM\/LAW C252":["CRM\/LAW","Issues in Environmental Law and Policy","Treatment of legal and policy strategies for promoting environmental protection and deterring environmental degradation within the context of other societal objectives. Topical approach with a focus on problems of special interest to criminologists and to environmental policy specialists.",""],"CRM\/LAW C253":["CRM\/LAW","Cybercrime, Cybersecurity, and Society","Introduces students to the world of cybercrime in the age of globally networked digital, and information and communication technologies (ICT). Presents a socio-legal approach to the study of cybercrime, cybersecurity, and how it relates to society.",""],"CRM\/LAW C254":["CRM\/LAW","Immigration in the US: Economic, Fiscal, and Social Outcomes","The changing patterns of immigration in the U.S. and the role that immigrants play in our society. In particular, the economic and social outcomes of immigration, as well as the relationship between immigration, crime, and criminal justice policy.",""],"CRM\/LAW C255":["CRM\/LAW","Public Policy","Explores different approaches to public policy analysis, the diverse conceptions of the goals and objectives that should be served by policy, and the appropriate role of the policy analyst.  Policy consequences are traced to indirect and subtle incentives and disincentives.",""],"CRM\/LAW C257":["CRM\/LAW","Juvenile Justice and Gangs","Aims to understand the history and evolution of the juvenile justice system, and introduces the challenges that street and prison gangs pose to the mission and operations of juvenile justice in America.",""],"CRM\/LAW C258":["CRM\/LAW","Crimmigration","Examines the criminalization of immigration, with an emphasis on U.S. enforcement procedures and outcomes. Analyzes the devolution of federal immigration law to local authorities, the rise in immigrant detention and deportation, and the militarization of the U.S.-Mexico border.",""],"CRM\/LAW C260A":["CRM\/LAW","Race and Justice Studies Proseminar ","A year-long proseminar conducted by a team of instructors specializing in race and justice studies. Conceived as a reading and peer mentor group focusing on intellectual and professional development. Required for students pursuing the Race and Justice Studies emphasis.",""],"CRM\/LAW C260B":["CRM\/LAW","Race and Justice Studies Proseminar","A year-long proseminar conducted by a team of instructors specializing in race and justice studies. Conceived as a reading and peer mentor group focusing on intellectual and professional development. Required for students pursuing the Race and Justice Studies emphasis.","CRM\/LAW C260A"],"CRM\/LAW C260C":["CRM\/LAW","Race and Justice Studies Proseminar","A year-long proseminar conducted by a team of instructors specializing in race and justice studies. Conceived as a reading and peer mentor group focusing on intellectual and professional development. Required for students pursuing the Race and Justice Studies emphasis.","CRM\/LAW C260B"],"CRM\/LAW C261":["CRM\/LAW","Race and Justice Studies Writing Seminar ","A required writing-intensive seminar conducted by an instructor affiliated with the Race and Justice Studies emphasis. Students with manuscripts on relevant topics will read and critique peer manuscripts, and revise manuscripts toward completion of articles, dissertation chapters, and other publications.","CRM\/LAW C260C"],"CRM\/LAW C262":["CRM\/LAW","Special Topics in Race and Justice Studies","A seminar focused on special issues in race and justice studies.",""],"CRM\/LAW C263":["CRM\/LAW","Eyewitness Testimony","Examines the evidence that shows that faulty eyewitness memory is the major cause of wrongful convictions. Explores what the legal system thinks of eyewitness testimony and how the legal system has dealt with eyewitness issues.",""],"CRM\/LAW C265":["CRM\/LAW","Memory and the Law","Examines the controversial topic of repressed memory, or perception and memory of real-world events.",""],"CRM\/LAW C266":["CRM\/LAW","Psychology and the Law","Overview of how psychology is applied to the civil and criminal justice systems, how case law shapes this application, and how legal decisions affect the direction of psychological research. Interdisciplinary approach to research in psychology, law, and\/or  criminology.",""],"CRM\/LAW C268":["CRM\/LAW","Contemporary Issues in Crime and Justice","Intensive reading and discussion of several recent works that raise critical issues for criminology and criminal justice policy, with a special emphasis on issues of inequality, diversity, and social justice.",""],"CRM\/LAW C270":["CRM\/LAW","Economics of Crime","An introduction to the economic approach of thinking about criminal activity. Using the Becker model of rational criminal behavior as a starting point, we evaluate how education, employment, social insurance, and local economic development programs can affect criminal behavior.",""],"CRM\/LAW C271":["CRM\/LAW","Economics of Criminal Justice","Considers empirical research from the economics literature on various topics related to the criminal justice system, such as policing, bail reform, incarceration, or recidivism.",""],"CRM\/LAW C275":["CRM\/LAW","Special Topics in Criminology, Law and Society","Topics covered vary with interests of instructor.",""],"CRM\/LAW C280A":["CRM\/LAW","Professionalization Proseminar","Focuses on two areas that are key to scholarly and professional success in graduate school but are rarely discussed in a structured setting: 1) publishing in peer-reviewed academic journals; and 2) preparing for the academic job market.",""],"CRM\/LAW C280B":["CRM\/LAW","Professionalization Proseminar","Focuses on two areas that are key to scholarly and professional success in graduate school but are rarely discussed in a structured setting: 1) publishing in peer-reviewed academic journals; and 2) preparing for the academic job market.","CRM\/LAW C280A"],"CRM\/LAW C280C":["CRM\/LAW","Professionalization Proseminar","Focuses on two areas that are key to scholarly and professional success in graduate school but are rarely discussed in a structured setting: 1) publishing in peer-reviewed academic journals; and 2) preparing for the academic job market.","CRM\/LAW C280B"],"CRM\/LAW C296":["CRM\/LAW","Doctoral Dissertation Research and Writing","Dissertation research with Criminology, Law and Society faculty.","Advancement to candidacy."],"CRM\/LAW C298":["CRM\/LAW","Directed Study","Directed study with Criminology, Law and Society faculty.",""],"CRM\/LAW C299":["CRM\/LAW","Independent Study    ","Independent research with Criminology, Law and Society faculty.",""],"CRITISM 200A":["CRITISM","Political Economy: Methods and Critique","Introduction to canonical texts in Marxism coupled with an examination of the questions of race, gender, ethnicity, and sexuality that distend the calculus of the canon's assumptive logic. May be taken after CLT&THY 200B.",""],"CLT&THY 200A":["CLT&THY","Political Economy: Methods and Critique","Introduction to canonical texts in Marxism coupled with an examination of the questions of race, gender, ethnicity, and sexuality that distend the calculus of the canon's assumptive logic. May be taken after CLT&THY 200B.",""],"CLT&THY 200B":["CLT&THY","Libidinal Economy: Methods and Critique","Introduction to canonical texts in psychoanalysis coupled with an examination of the questions of race, gender, ethnicity, and sexuality that distend the calculus of the canon's assumptive logic. May be taken before CLT&THY 200A.",""],"CLT&THY 200C":["CLT&THY","Theory from Below","Introduction to systems of thought understudied or undervalued in academic canons; for instance, systems constituted in communities' practices or theories that do not seek permanence or generality.",""],"CLT&THY 241":["CLT&THY","Ethics, Erotics, and Will: Gendered Black Politics, Sexualized Racisms, and the Humanities","Introduces doctoral students to an interdisciplinary conversation about black queer sexuality and black heteropatriarchy. Uses disciplinary formations as a tool for understanding knowledge formations about the shifting relations that constitute sexuality, gender, and racial blackness.",""],"CLT&THY 242":["CLT&THY","Afro-Pessimism and the Status of the Subject","Afro-Pessimism theorizes the Black as a being against which all other beings become legible as human subjects. Focuses on either the subject of psychoanalysis or the subject of capital accumulation in their explorations of the antagonism between Blackness.",""],"CLT&THY 280":["CLT&THY","Independent Study","Limited to students who have not yet received the M.A. degree.",""],"CLT&THY 289":["CLT&THY","Topics in Culture and Theory","Seminars on various topics in Culture and Theory.",""],"CLT&THY 298":["CLT&THY","Directed Reading","Directed readings on a specific topic agreed upon by students and their instructors. Limited to students who have completed their M.A. degree and are preparing for their qualifying exam.","Completion of the M.A. degree."],"CLT&THY 299":["CLT&THY","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research in Culture and Theory.",""],"DANCE 2":["DANCE","Dance Health and Injury Prevention","An overview of factors that affect the health of dancers. Includes evaluation of general health measures and prevention and management of common dance injuries.",""],"DANCE 3":["DANCE","Scientific Concepts of Health","Introduction to the scientific foundations of health, emphasizing those pertaining to success in college and lifetime wellness. Includes principles of cardiorespiratory, musculoskeletal, flexibility, and nutritional fitness. A variety of learning experiences are offered to apply science to real life.",""],"DANCE 14":["DANCE","Social Dance","Current and historical forms that may include ballroom, disco, square dance, Latin styles, and other social dances from the early-to-mid 20th century.",""],"DANCE 21A":["DANCE","Music for Dancers","Emphasis on the development of musical skills most pertinent to the dancer: vocabulary, notational literacy, rhythmic and melodic acuity, score reading, and fundamental analysis; working with live accompaniment.",""],"DANCE 30A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Ballet I","Beginning ballet: fundamentals and principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.",""],"DANCE 30B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Ballet I","Beginning ballet: fundamentals and principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 30A"],"DANCE 30C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Ballet I","Beginning ballet: fundamentals and principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 30A and DANCE 30B"],"DANCE 34":["DANCE","Men's Studio Workshop in Ballet","Emphasis on men's traditional ballet, techniques, and movements.","DANCE 30A and DANCE 30B and DANCE 30C"],"DANCE 40A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary Dance I","Fundamentals of modern\/contemporary dance, including the use of breath, gravity, spatial awareness, and time values.",""],"DANCE 40B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary Dance I","Fundamentals of modern\/contemporary dance, including the use of breath, gravity, spatial awareness, and time values.",""],"DANCE 40C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary Dance I","Fundamentals of modern\/contemporary dance, including the use of breath, gravity, spatial awareness, and time values.",""],"DANCE 50A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop on Jazz I","Fundamentals of jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal point of view of the instructor.",""],"DANCE 50B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop on Jazz I","Fundamentals of jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal point of view of the instructor.","DANCE 50A"],"DANCE 50C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop on Jazz I","Fundamentals of jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal point of view of the instructor.","DANCE 50B"],"DANCE 52A":["DANCE","Workshop in Tap I","Beginning tap:  principles of rhythm and basic tap steps.",""],"DANCE 52B":["DANCE","Workshop in Tap I","Beginning tap:  principles of rhythm and basic tap steps.","DANCE 52A"],"DANCE 52C":["DANCE","Workshop in Tap I","Beginning tap:  principles of rhythm and basic tap steps.","DANCE 52B"],"DANCE 53A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop I","Designed to support non-major dance students learning outcomes in basic and foundational concepts of Hip Hop dance forms.",""],"DANCE 53B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop I","Designed to support non-major dance students learning outcomes in basic and foundational concepts of Hip Hop dance forms.",""],"DANCE 53C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop I","Designed to support non-major dance students learning outcomes in basic and foundational concepts of Hip Hop dance forms.",""],"DANCE 60A":["DANCE","Choreography","Beginning-to-intermediate study of principles of dance composition.  May include composition assignments for stage and video.  By audition, works may be shown quarterly in public studio performances.",""],"DANCE 60B":["DANCE","Choreography","Beginning-to-intermediate study of principles of dance composition.  May include composition assignments for stage and video.  By audition, works may be shown quarterly in public studio performances.","DANCE 60A"],"DANCE 60C":["DANCE","Choreography","Beginning-to-intermediate study of principles of dance composition.  May include composition assignments for stage and video.  By audition, works may be shown quarterly in public studio performances.","DANCE 60A and DANCE 60B"],"DANCE 80":["DANCE","Introduction to Ballet and Modern Dance","Survey of nineteenth and twentieth-century ballet, modern dance, and theatre dance.",""],"DANCE 81":["DANCE","American Ballet and Modern Dance since 1900","A survey of American ballet and modern dance in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. Lectures are supplemented by video.",""],"DANCE 90A":["DANCE","Dance History I","Global perspectives.  Topics and histories of dance and movement practices from various parts of the world.",""],"DANCE 90B":["DANCE","Dance History II","The history of dance in the western tradition from the Renaissance through the 19th century.","DANCE 90A"],"DANCE 90C":["DANCE","Dance History III","The history of dance in the western tradition in the the 20th and 21st centuries.","DANCE 90B"],"DANCE 100":["DANCE","Kinesiology for Dance","The study of the production of dance movement by the musculoskeletal system. Anatomical and dynamic analysis of dance movement.",""],"DANCE 103":["DANCE","Pilates","Basics of technique emphasizing alignment, breath control, correction of muscular imbalances.",""],"DANCE 104":["DANCE","Pilates Reformer","Utilizes the Universal Reformer apparatus, aiding the student in core stabilization, correcting muscular imbalances, increasing flexibility, and improving strength.","DANCE 103"],"DANCE 110":["DANCE","World Dance          ","Studio workshop of dances and movement sources of specified countries or areas.",""],"DANCE 125A":["DANCE","Teaching of Dance","Pedagogy.  The methods and theory of teaching dance forms.","DANCE 133A and DANCE 133B and DANCE 133C and DANCE 143A and DANCE 143B and DANCE 143C"],"DANCE 127A":["DANCE","Costume Design for Dance","Costume design and construction specific to the body in motion. Theoretical study and practical execution.",""],"DANCE 130A":["DANCE","Pointe Class","Beginning and intermediate pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 132A and DANCE 132B and DANCE 132C"],"DANCE 132A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Ballet II","Intermediate ballet and beginning pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","(DANCE 30A and DANCE 30B and DANCE 30C) or audition. Prerequisites are for non-Dance majors only."],"DANCE 132B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Ballet II","Intermediate ballet and beginning pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 132A"],"DANCE 132C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Ballet II","Intermediate ballet and beginning pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 132A and DANCE 132B"],"DANCE 133A":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet III","Advanced intermediate ballet and pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 132C. DANCE 132C with a grade of B+ or better. Placement by audition is also accepted."],"DANCE 133B":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet III","Advanced intermediate ballet and pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 133A"],"DANCE 133C":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet III","Advanced intermediate ballet and pointe work; principles of classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 133A and DANCE 133B"],"DANCE 134A":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet IV","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance styles: principles of classical ballet.","DANCE 133A and DANCE 133B and DANCE 133C. DANCE 133C with a grade of B+ or better. Placement by audition is also accepted."],"DANCE 134B":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet IV","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance styles: principles of classical ballet.","DANCE 134A"],"DANCE 134C":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet IV","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance styles: principles of classical ballet.","DANCE 134A and DANCE 134B"],"DANCE 135A":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet V","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance styles: principles of classical ballet.","DANCE 134A and DANCE 134B and DANCE 134C. DANCE 134C with a grade of B+ or better. Placement by audition is also accepted. "],"DANCE 135B":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet V","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance styles: principles of classical ballet.","DANCE 135A"],"DANCE 135C":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Ballet V","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance styles: principles of classical ballet.","DANCE 135A and DANCE 135B"],"DANCE 137":["DANCE","Repertory           ","Rehearsal and performance of repertoire from established ballet, modern, or jazz choreographers.","(DANCE 133A and DANCE 133B and DANCE 133C) or (DANCE 143A and DANCE 143B and DANCE 143C)"],"DANCE 139":["DANCE","Partnering","Principles of partnering techniques in various dance performance styles.","DANCE 133A and DANCE 133B and DANCE 133C and DANCE 143A and DANCE 143B and DANCE 143C"],"DANCE 142A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary II","Introduction to the principles of motion, including the use of breath, gravity, spatial awareness, and time values.","DANCE 40A and DANCE 40B and DANCE 40C. Prerequisites are for non-Dance majors only."],"DANCE 142B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary II","Introduction to the principles of motion, including the use of breath, gravity, spatial awareness, and time values.","DANCE 142A"],"DANCE 142C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary II","Introduction to the principles of motion, including the use of breath, gravity, spatial awareness, and time values.","DANCE 142A and DANCE 142B"],"DANCE 143A":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary III","Builds on fundamentals of Dance 142A-B-C and introduces performance techniques.","DANCE 142C. DANCE 142C with a grade of B+ or better"],"DANCE 143B":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary III","Builds on the fundamentals of DANCE 142A-DANCE 142B-DANCE 142C and introduces performance techniques.","DANCE 143A"],"DANCE 143C":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary III","Builds on fundamentals of DANCE 142A-DANCE 142B-DANCE 142C and introduces performance techniques.","DANCE 143A and DANCE 143B"],"DANCE 144A":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary IV","Synthesis of fundamentals and performance technique. Aims to bring students to the preprofessional level.","DANCE 143C. DANCE 143C with a grade of B+ or better"],"DANCE 144B":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary IV","Synthesis of fundamentals and performance technique. Aims to bring students to the preprofessional level.","DANCE 144A"],"DANCE 144C":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary IV","Synthesis of fundamentals and performance technique. Aims to bring students to the preprofessional level.","DANCE 144A and DANCE 144B"],"DANCE 152A":["DANCE","Intermediate Studio Workshop in Jazz II","Intermediate jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","Prerequisites for non-Dance majors: DANCE 50A and DANCE 50B and DANCE 50C."],"DANCE 152B":["DANCE","Intermediate Studio Workshop in Jazz II","Intermediate jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 152A"],"DANCE 152C":["DANCE","Intermediate Studio Workshop in Jazz II","Intermediate jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 152A and DANCE 152B"],"DANCE 153A":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Jazz III","Advanced jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 152C. DANCE 152C with a grade of B+ or better"],"DANCE 153B":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Jazz III","Advanced jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 153A"],"DANCE 153C":["DANCE","Advanced Studio Workshop in Jazz III","Advanced jazz:  principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 153A and DANCE 153B"],"DANCE 154A":["DANCE","Advanced Jazz: Performance Techniques IV","Advanced jazz emphasizing performance techniques.","DANCE 153C. DANCE 153C with a grade of B+ or better"],"DANCE 154B":["DANCE","Advanced Jazz: Performance Techniques IV","Advanced jazz emphasizing performance techniques.","DANCE 154A"],"DANCE 154C":["DANCE","Advanced Jazz: Performance Techniques IV","Advanced jazz emphasizing performance techniques.","DANCE 154A and DANCE 154B"],"DANCE 155A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop II","Introduction to learning outcomes in basic and foundational concepts of hip hop dance forms.","DANCE 53A and DANCE 53B and DANCE 53C. Audition is also accepted. Prerequisites are for non-Dance Majors only."],"DANCE 155B":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop II","Introduction to learning outcomes in basic and foundational concepts of hip hop dance forms.","DANCE 155A"],"DANCE 155C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop II","Introduction to learning outcomes in basic and foundational concepts of hip hop dance forms.","DANCE 155B"],"DANCE 156A":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop III","Builds on fundamentals of Dance 155A-B-C and introduces commercial and industry standards.","DANCE 155C. DANCE 155C with a grade of B+ or better"],"DANCE 156B":["DANCE"," Studio Workshop in Hip Hop III","Builds on fundamentals of Dance 155A-B-C and introduces commercial and industry standards.","DANCE 156A"],"DANCE 156C":["DANCE","Studio Workshop in Hip Hop III","Builds on fundamentals of Dance 155A-B-C and introduces commercial and industry standards.","DANCE 156A and DANCE 156B"],"DANCE 160":["DANCE","Improvisation","Structured and experiential improvisation to heighten the personal intuitive processes, the kinesthetic sense, spatial and temporal awareness, and to encourage insights into the potential movement resources of the individual for performance and choreography.  Course encourages freedom of exploration.",""],"DANCE 162A":["DANCE","Choreography II","Directed choreographic projects for stage or video integrating the elements of stagecraft.  In process or completed works may be shown quarterly in public studio or stage performances.","DANCE 60A and DANCE 60B and DANCE 60C. Audition required. "],"DANCE 162B":["DANCE","Choreography II","Directed choreographic projects for stage or video integrating the elements of stagecraft.  In process or completed works may be shown quarterly in public studio or stage performances.","DANCE 162A. Audition required. "],"DANCE 163":["DANCE","Dance and Video Technology","Introduction to video and audio documentation of dance performance. Integrating dance performance within the film aesthetic. Techniques and technologies of video cameras, formats, editing, and projection. Overview of video compression and DVD authoring.","DANCE 60A"],"DANCE 164":["DANCE","Screendance","Overview of dance for film and choreography for the camera. Aesthetics of creating dance for the screen. Approaches for delivery of dance films to an audience, including projection, DVD, Web, and mobile devices. A final dance film project is required.","DANCE 163"],"DANCE 165":["DANCE","Choreographic Projects","Supervised choreographic projects for workshop productions.","Audition required. "],"DANCE 170":["DANCE","Dance Performance","Rehearsal and performance in a faculty-choreographed production.","Audition required. "],"DANCE 171":["DANCE","Dance Workshop","Rehearsal and performance in a student-choreographed production.","Audition required. "],"DANCE 172":["DANCE","Master of Fine Arts Concert","Rehearsal and performance in a graduate student-choreographed production.","Audition required. "],"DANCE 176":["DANCE","UCI Jazz Dance Ensemble","Rehearsal and performance in theatrical jazz dance, designed to provide an experience in assimilating various styles of jazz dance and in refining dance performance techniques.  Students will master aspects of dance company promotion.","DANCE 152A and DANCE 152B and DANCE 152C"],"DANCE 178":["DANCE","Performance Laboratory","Rehearsal and performance of graduate student-choreographed dance works for the M.F.A. thesis.",""],"DANCE 179":["DANCE","UCI Etude Ensemble","Repertory and performances by undergraduate Dance majors. Concert presentations on and off campus. Faculty directed, student\/faculty choreographed.","Audition required."],"DANCE 180C":["DANCE","Laban Studies","Laban movement analysis.","DANCE 21A"],"DANCE 185W":["DANCE","Critical Issues in Dance","Critical thinking and writing about dance, with a section on dance criticism and a major emphasis on persuasive writing about significant issues in the dance world.","DANCE 90A and DANCE 90B and DANCE 90C. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DANCE 193":["DANCE","Selected Topics in Dance","Directed group studies of topics in dance.",""],"DANCE 195":["DANCE","Arts Management","Designed for students interested in the developmental and management of nonprofit arts organizations.  Examines the organizational structure and areas of operation such as marketing, fundraising, budgeting, production, and administration.",""],"DANCE 197":["DANCE","Independent Study","Individual independent projects in experimental laboratory, library, field, performance, under instructor's direction. Students can receive conceptual, creative, and theoretical instruction in the successful completion of a written report or performance.",""],"DANCE 199":["DANCE","Senior Thesis","Directed research or creative activity for senior Dance majors.  Research consists of a substantial essay on dance history, research in dance science, or the creation of original or reconstructed choreography.",""],"DANCE 201":["DANCE","Seminar in Kinesiology for Dance","Introduction to the anatomical, biomechanical, and physiological principles of dance movement.","DANCE 100"],"DANCE 222":["DANCE","Musical Resources","Detailed study of music as it relates to dance. Historical overview of musical form, style, and other elements.  Analysis of various affinities between music and dance.  Practical applications.",""],"DANCE 225":["DANCE","Seminar in the Teaching of Dance Techniques","Principles and theories of teaching dance techniques. Supervised presentation and teaching of technique class.",""],"DANCE 231A":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Ballet","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance style: principles of the classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.",""],"DANCE 231B":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Ballet","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance style: principles of  the classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 231A"],"DANCE 231C":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Ballet","Advanced ballet, pointe work, and performance style: principles of the classical ballet with an emphasis on technique.","DANCE 231B"],"DANCE 241A":["DANCE","Graduate Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary","Advanced modern dance: synthesis of fundamentals and performance technique. Aims to bring students to the preprofessional level.","Audition required."],"DANCE 241B":["DANCE","Graduate Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary","Advanced modern\/contemporary dance offering a synthesis of fundamentals and performance technique.","DANCE 241A. Audition required."],"DANCE 241C":["DANCE","Graduate Studio Workshop in Modern\/Contemporary","Advanced modern\/contemporary dance offering a synthesis of fundamentals and performance technique.","DANCE 241B"],"DANCE 251A":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Jazz","Principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms, incorporating the personal views of the instructor.",""],"DANCE 251B":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Jazz","Principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms, incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 251A"],"DANCE 251C":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Jazz","Principles of jazz dance and contemporary forms, incorporating the personal views of the instructor.","DANCE 251B"],"DANCE 252A":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Tap","An overview of tap concentrating on the development of various technique forms using basic and intermediate principles.",""],"DANCE 252C":["DANCE","Graduate Studio: Tap","An overview of tap concentrating on the development of various technique forms using basic and intermediate principles.","DANCE 252B"],"DANCE 255A":["DANCE","Graduate Studio Workshop in Hip Hop","Advanced hip hop dance with an emphasis on technique and added study of commercial and industry standards.","Audition required."],"DANCE 255B":["DANCE","Graduate Studio Workshop in Hip Hop","Advanced hip hop dance with an emphasis on technique and added study of commercial and industry standards.","DANCE 255A. Audition required."],"DANCE 255C":["DANCE","Graduate Studio Workshop in Hip Hop","Advanced hip hop dance with an emphasis on technique and added study of commercial and industry standards.","DANCE 255A and DANCE 255B. Audition required."],"DANCE 261A":["DANCE","Graduate Studio in Choreography","Graduate work in dance composition emphasizing the individual aesthetic.  Assignments in movement discovery, solo and group forms, with the main emphasis on independent work.",""],"DANCE 261B":["DANCE","Graduate Studio in Choreography","Graduate work in dance composition emphasizing the individual aesthetic.  Assignments in movement discovery, solo and group forms, with the main emphasis on independent work.","DANCE 261A"],"DANCE 281":["DANCE","Dance and Video Technology","Introduction to video and audio documentation of dance performance. Integrating dance performance within the film aesthetic. Techniques and technologies of video cameras, formats, editing, and projection. Overview of video compression and DVD authoring.",""],"DANCE 282":["DANCE","Seminar in Movement Analysis","Theories of movement analysis and nonverbal communication applied to dance.",""],"DANCE 283":["DANCE","Critical Issues in Dance","Reading, writing, discussing, and presenting key issues that relate to dance studies.  Basics of dance analysis and criticism.  Special emphasis on effective ways of defining, clarifying, and arguing for points of view.","DANCE 284"],"DANCE 284":["DANCE","Bibliography and Research","Understanding the field of dance studies, available resources, research methods, and academic formats in preparation for thesis writing.",""],"DANCE 285":["DANCE","Graduate Projects","Projects may be educational, choreographic, scientific, historical, or philosophical in scope and must have faculty advisor approval.",""],"DANCE 286":["DANCE","Thesis","Substantial research in a topic approved by the student's graduate committee.  Results of the research must be written in approved thesis style.",""],"DANCE 287":["DANCE","Graduate Lectures in Dance","A series of lectures and discussions of announced topics in dance. Content may be from history, ethnology, notation, medicine, music, or other areas in the field.",""],"DANCE 296":["DANCE","Proseminar in Dance History","Discussion seminar with emphasis on reading and thinking about problems in dance history; presentation of oral and written reports.",""],"DANCE 297":["DANCE","Directed Reading","Topic to be approved by instructor.  Paper required.",""],"DANCE 399":["DANCE","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"DATA 295P":["DATA","Special Topics in Data Science","Covers one or more emerging topics in data science. Course content may vary.",""],"DATA 296P":["DATA","Capstone Writing and Communication","Written and oral communication for data science careers. Production of a detailed document describing the design, methods, analytic strategy, interpretation, and conclusions as related to the concurrent capstone design and analysis class and refinement of written documents and oral communications.","Required: Completion of at least 24 units in the Master of Data Science program."],"DATA 297P":["DATA","Capstone Design and Analysis","Complete implementation of a data science analytic strategy for obtaining empirically-driven solutions to problems from science and industry. Focuses on the problem definition and analysis, data representation, algorithm selection, solution validation, and presentation of results.",""],"DATA 298P":["DATA","Curricular Practical Training","Internship in which students work individually at an outside organization to gain experience with the challenges involved in data related work Materials fee.",""],"DATA 299P":["DATA","Individual Study","Supervised individual study in data science.",""],"DEV BIO 200A":["DEV BIO","Research in Developmental and Cell Biology","Independent research with Developmental and Cell Biology faculty.",""],"DEV BIO 200B":["DEV BIO","Research in Developmental and Cell Biology","Independent research with Developmental and Cell Biology faculty.","DEV BIO 200A"],"DEV BIO 200C":["DEV BIO","Research in Developmental and Cell Biology ","Independent research with Developmental and Cell Biology faculty.","DEV BIO 200B"],"DEV BIO 200R":["DEV BIO","Research in Developmental & Cell Biology for First-year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in the Department of Developmental and Cell Biology for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"DEV BIO 203A":["DEV BIO","Graduate Tutorial in Developmental and Cell Biology","Advanced study in areas not represented by formal courses. May involve individual or small group study through discussion, reading, and composition. Time and subject matter arranged individually.",""],"DEV BIO 203B":["DEV BIO","Graduate Tutorial in Developmental and Cell Biology","Advanced study in areas not represented by formal courses. May involve individual or small group study through discussion, reading, and composition. Time and subject matter arranged individually.","DEV BIO 203A"],"DEV BIO 203C":["DEV BIO","Graduate Tutorial in Developmental and Cell Biology","Advanced study in areas not represented by formal courses. May involve individual or small group study through discussion, reading, and composition. Time and subject matter arranged individually.","DEV BIO 203B"],"DEV BIO 206A":["DEV BIO","Developmental and Cell Biology Journal Club","Advanced study of various topics in cell biology.",""],"DEV BIO 206B":["DEV BIO","Developmental and Cell Biology Journal Club","Advanced study of various topics in cell biology.","DEV BIO 206A"],"DEV BIO 206C":["DEV BIO","Developmental and Cell Biology Journal Club","Advanced study of various topics in cell biology.","DEV BIO 206B"],"DEV BIO 207":["DEV BIO","Mouse Developmental Genetics","Introduction to using the mouse in contemporary biomedical research. The biology and development of the laboratory mouse, methods for manipulation of the mouse genome and embryos, and examples of application of these methods to understand mammalian development and homeostasis.",""],"DEV BIO 210":["DEV BIO","Developmental Genetics and Genomics","Focuses on critical concepts in developmental genetics and genomics, emphasizing primary literature and new cutting edge approaches in genetic model organisms such as worms, flies, fish, and mice, with relevance for human genetics and disease.",""],"DEV BIO 212":["DEV BIO","Topics in Systems Biology","Studies in selected areas of Systems Biology.",""],"DEV BIO 214":["DEV BIO","Principles of Genomics","A survey course of the principal subfields of genomics and their applications to biological and health sciences that will cover genome assembly and annotation, genome structure, comparative genomics, population genomics, functional genomics, and medical genomics.",""],"DEV BIO 231B":["DEV BIO","Cell Biology","A broadly based course including topics in extracellular matrix, cytoskeleton, organelle biogenesis, receptor-mediated endocytosis, signal transduction, cell cycle, and developmental biology.",""],"DEV BIO 232":["DEV BIO","Systems Cell and Developmental Biology","Introduces concepts needed to understand cell and developmental biology at the systems level, i.e., how the parts (molecules) work together to create a complex output. Emphasis on using mathematical\/computational modeling to expand\/modify insights provided by intuition.",""],"DEV BIO 245":["DEV BIO","Stem Cell Biology","The basic characteristics and development roles of embryonic, adult, and cancer stem cells in the human body and in model systems and the use of experimental and genetic methods to analyze and manipulate their properties.",""],"DEV BIO 290A":["DEV BIO","Colloquium in Developmental and Cell Biology","Contemporary research problems. Research students, faculty, and other invited speakers introduce research and review topics.",""],"DEV BIO 290B":["DEV BIO","Colloquium in Developmental and Cell Biology","Contemporary research problems. Research students, faculty, and other invited speakers introduce research and review topics.","DEV BIO 290A"],"DEV BIO 290C":["DEV BIO","Colloquium in Developmental and Cell Biology","Contemporary research problems. Research students, faculty, and other invited speakers introduce research and review topics.","DEV BIO 290B"],"DEV BIO 292A":["DEV BIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"DEV BIO 292B":["DEV BIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.","DEV BIO 292A"],"DEV BIO 292C":["DEV BIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.","DEV BIO 292B"],"DEV BIO 399":["DEV BIO","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"DRAMA 10":["DRAMA","Introduction to Theatre","An interactive introduction to the world of theatre that serves to develop an appreciation of theatrical arts, to establish an awareness of landmarks within the performance history, and to create an understanding of the collaborative roles and departments that exist.",""],"DRAMA 11":["DRAMA","The Rock and Roll Spectacle Show","A thorough overview to the development and cultural significance of the Rock 'n' Roll Spectacle show. Focus on historical and recent developments of the spectacle show, trends in the aesthetics of the field, and various sub-genres.",""],"DRAMA 14":["DRAMA","Performing Rock 'N' Roll","Explores major movements in the history of rock 'n' roll in terms of performance, not virtuosity necessarily of the performers as musicians, rather as performances of aesthetics in modes of embodied ideology, iconoclastic spectacle, mixed media fashion, and subcultural formation.",""],"DRAMA 15":["DRAMA","Performance Now","Exposes students to what is most current in the world of performance and theatre.  Begins with a series of lectures on the idea of performance, and the various theories that frame it.",""],"DRAMA 16":["DRAMA","Performing Culture","Culture, aesthetics, and ideology (combined in the concept \"subculture\") work to fashion social identities. Using theories and methodologies of performance studies, with an emphasis on American culture, this course explores why and how culture is reinforced through performance.",""],"DRAMA 20A":["DRAMA","Culture in Performance","A three-quarter foundation series exploring the rich depth of theatre, drama, and other genres of performance across a wide variety of worldwide forms, for performer and audience.",""],"DRAMA 20B":["DRAMA","Culture in Performance","A three-quarter foundation series exploring the rich depth of theatre, drama, and other genres of performance across a wide variety of worldwide forms, for performer and audience.",""],"DRAMA 20C":["DRAMA","Culture in Performance","A three-quarter foundation series exploring the rich depth of theatre, drama, and other genres of performance across a wide variety of worldwide forms, for performer and audience.",""],"DRAMA 30A":["DRAMA","Acting","Focuses on Stanislavski-based terminology and technique through theatre exercises and improvisation. The first part of a one-year series in basic acting technique and discipline.",""],"DRAMA 30B":["DRAMA","Acting","Focuses on scene work and character development. The second part of a one-year series in basic acting technique and discipline.","DRAMA 30A"],"DRAMA 30C":["DRAMA","Acting","Focuses on monologues, auditions, callbacks, and the profession of acting. The third part of a one-year series in basic acting technique and discipline.","DRAMA 30A and DRAMA 30B"],"DRAMA 34":["DRAMA","Movement for Actors","A studio course in fundamentals of stretch, strength, and alignment; exploring spatial awareness and physical control through mime isolations, techniques, and related improvisation.",""],"DRAMA 35":["DRAMA","Speech for the Theatre","An introductory course in voice and speech for actors, combining the body-based approach to voice developed by Fitzmaurice, and speech work of Knight and Thompson. Designed for the needs of actors and is not a public speaking course.",""],"DRAMA 40A":["DRAMA","Development of Drama","The development of Western Drama, concentrating on the drama's intellectual, social, and artistic foundations. About 10 plays and supplementary critical material are read each quarter. Greek Drama through Shakespeare.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 40B":["DRAMA","Development of Drama","The development of Western Drama, concentrating on the drama's intellectual, social, and artistic foundations. About 10 plays and supplementary critical material are read each quarter. Restoration Drama through Ibsen.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 40C":["DRAMA","Development of Drama","The development of Western Drama, concentrating on the drama's intellectual, social, and artistic foundations. About 10 plays and supplementary material are read each quarter. Contemporary Drama. Post Naturalistic theatre.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 50A":["DRAMA","Introduction to Costume Design","Introduction to the process and procedures employed by the costume designer for the theatre. The elements of design are discussed in the context of character development, historical period, and style. Exercises extend to drawing, rendering, and investigation of human proportions.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 50B":["DRAMA","Introduction to Scenic Design","Introduction to the principles and practice of scenic design. Weekly problems include research into various periods and styles of production with an emphasis on the conceptual idea. Perspective drawing, rendering, and model building are covered in studio exercises and assignments.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 50C":["DRAMA","Introduction to Lighting Design","Introduction to the principles, theories, and equipment employed by the lighting designer for the stage.  Areas of investigation include history, technology, and script analysis. Detailed studio attention is given to the theory and practice of design.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 50D":["DRAMA","Introduction to Sound Design","Principles, theories, equipment use, and terminology employed by the sound designer for the stage. Areas of study include history, technology, and script analysis.  Focuses on the theory and practice of design.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 50E":["DRAMA","Introduction to Stage Management","A basic study of theatrical, dance, and opera stage management practices, forms, and methods, from first script reading to closing night.  Opportunity to observe professionals at work in regional and touring situations as available.","r corequisite: DRAMA 10"],"DRAMA 60":["DRAMA","Topics in Advanced Stage Management","Nurtures a greater appreciation for the stage manager and his or her process, and supports students who are interested in pursuing a career in professional stage management.",""],"DRAMA 65":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Workshop I","Basic vocal technique and characterization of musical theatre repertoire explored.","Audition required."],"DRAMA 80":["DRAMA","Directing I         ","Introduction to comprehensive directing process from pre-production to opening. Focus on fundamental skills: analysis, staging, action, actor coaching, and elements of design. Skills applied to scripted theatrical material. Develop a language for commenting on theatrical production. Attending and critiquing productions.","DRAMA 30A and DRAMA 30B"],"DRAMA 100":["DRAMA","University Theatre    ","Rehearsal and performance in a faculty-directed.","Audition required."],"DRAMA 101A":["DRAMA","Theatre Production:  Costume","The production courses are offered to give students the opportunity to participate in departmental productions. Students engage in the production and construction of designed work as well as its applied execution during performance.",""],"DRAMA 101B":["DRAMA","Theatre Production:  Scenic","The production courses are offered to give students the opportunity to participate in departmental productions. Students engage in the production and construction of designed work as well as its applied execution during performance.",""],"DRAMA 101C":["DRAMA","Theatre Production:  Lighting","The production courses are offered to give students the opportunity to participate in departmental productions. Students engage in the production and construction of designed work as well as its applied execution during performance.",""],"DRAMA 101D":["DRAMA","Theatre Production:  Stage Management","The production courses are offered to give students the opportunity to participate in departmental productions. Students engage in the production and construction of designed work as well as its applied execution during performance.",""],"DRAMA 101E":["DRAMA","Theatre Production:  Audio","The production courses are offered to give students the opportunity to participate in departmental productions. Students engage in the production and construction of designed work as well as its applied execution during performance.",""],"DRAMA 101S":["DRAMA","Theatre Production: Theatre Management","The production courses are offered to give students the opportunity to participate in departmental productions. Students engage in the production and construction of designed work as well as its applied execution during performance.",""],"DRAMA 103":["DRAMA","Topics in Dramatic Literature","Courses include Medieval and Tudor Drama, Elizabethan and Jacobean Drama, Shakespeare, Restoration and 18th Century Drama, Modern British Drama, Modern American Drama, Tragedy, and Comedy.",""],"DRAMA 103W":["DRAMA","Lectures in Dramatic Literature","Courses include Medieval and Tudor Drama, Elizabethan and Jacobean Drama, Shakespeare, Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Drama, Modern British Drama, Modern American Drama, Tragedy, and Comedy.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 109":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Theory and Criticism","Discussion of recent major trends and ideas in critical theory, concentrating on in-depth readings and lectures in particular facets of theory and criticism: Derrida, Butler, Lacan, Deleuze, and others.",""],"DRAMA 109W":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Theory and Criticism","Discussion of recent major trends and ideas in critical theory, concentrating on in-depth readings and lectures in particular facets of theory and criticism: Derrida, Butler, Lacan, Deleuze, and others.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"DRAMA 110":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Classical Dramas  ","Designed to introduce students to various classical traditions-early Greek and Roman theatres, to be sure, but also, by way of comparison, the classical traditions of non-European cultures.","DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 110W":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Classical Dramas","Designed to introduce students to various classical traditions-early Greek and Roman theatres, to be sure, but also, by way of comparison, the classical traditions of non-European cultures.","DRAMA 40A or DRAMA 40B or DRAMA 40C. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 112":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Early Modern and Neoclassical Theatre","Investigates aspects of European theatre and culture in the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries; individual courses may focus on specific topics within this broad expanse.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 112W":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Early Modern and Neoclassical Theatre","Investigates aspects of European theatre and culture in the sixteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth centuries; individual courses may focus on specific topics within this broad expanse.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 116":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Nineteenth-Century Dramas","Looks at the various trends and conventions of theatres in the nineteenth century, both Euro-American and beyond, paying special attention to the culture and political milieu within which these various traditions appeared.","DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 116W":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Nineteenth-Century Dramas","Looks at the various trends and conventions of theatres in the nineteenth century, both Euro-American and beyond, paying special attention to the culture and political milieu within which these various traditions appeared.","DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"DRAMA 118":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Modern and Contemporary Drama","An investigation into the many forms and permutations of modern (1880-1945), and contemporary (since 1945) drama, paying special attention to the historical and philosophical interpretations of text and performance.","DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"DRAMA 118W":["DRAMA","Special Topics in Modern and Contemporary Drama ","An investigation into the many forms and permutations of modern (1880-1945), and contemporary (since 1945) drama, paying special attention to the historical and philosophical interpretations of text and performance.","DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 121":["DRAMA","Introduction to Asian Theatre","An introduction to some of the major traditional theatrical forms and dramatic texts from India, China, and Japan.  Other than dramatic texts (in English translation), attention is also paid to theory, history, and performance styles of traditional Asian theatre.",""],"DRAMA 122":["DRAMA","Asian American Theatre","An introduction to the history and development of Asian American theatre and drama. Besides play analysis, special attention is also paid to the history and politics of Asian American identity and experience, as well as to aspects of theatrical performance.","DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C"],"DRAMA 123":["DRAMA","Multicultural Theatres","A study of the history, culture, aesthetics, and literature of various traditional performing arts and their connections to the contemporary multicultural society.",""],"DRAMA 126":["DRAMA","African American Film and Drama","A critical investigation of films and plays written by African Americans, with emphasis on dramaturgical and cinematic strategies, individual and collective representation, and the legacy of African American political struggle.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 126W":["DRAMA","African American Film and Drama","A critical investigation of films and plays written by African Americans, with emphasis on dramaturgical and cinematic strategies, individual and collective representation, and the legacy of African American political struggle.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 129":["DRAMA","Advanced Topics in Performance","Addresses particular issues in theatre and performance that typically lie outside of regular course offerings. May address such issues as the theatre of the Avant Garde, performing gender, transversality and performance, body art, installation and performance art, among other topics.",""],"DRAMA 129W":["DRAMA","Advanced Topics in Performance","Addresses particular issues in theatre and performance that typically lie outside of regular course offerings. May address such issues as the theatre of the Avant Garde, performing gender, transversality and performance, body art, installation and performance art, among other topics.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. "],"DRAMA 130":["DRAMA","Intermediate Acting","Rehearsal and presentation of scenes from contemporary material. Focus on connection with scene partner, playing actions, and text analysis. Introduction to the credibility and theatricality of characterization and style.","DRAMA 30A and DRAMA 30B and DRAMA 30C with an average grade of B or better. For transfer students: one year of beginning acting with an average grade of B or better."],"DRAMA 132A":["DRAMA","Writing for Performance","Completion of a full-length play or its equivalent; discussion of student writing and of relevant literary texts.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 134":["DRAMA","Studio for Advanced Movement for Actors","Studio course in conditioning and partnering techniques to the practice of contact improvisation. Contact improvisation is explored and applied in scene study.","DRAMA 34. DRAMA 34 with a grade of B or better"],"DRAMA 135":["DRAMA","Master Classes in Acting","Advanced acting in specialized areas including acting for the camera: situation comedy; commercials; auditioning and industry preparation; Shakespeare; Moliere; Chekov; improvisation; advanced movement and voice and speech for the actor; self-starting; stage combat; repertory acting, singing; comedy; clowning; and masks.","DRAMA 130. DRAMA 130 with a grade of B or better"],"DRAMA 136":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Acting","An acting class exclusive to the students in the B.F.A. in Music Theatre program.","DRAMA 30A and DRAMA 30B and DRAMA 30C"],"DRAMA 142":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Workshop II","A workshop in audition technique and song interpretation.","Audition required."],"DRAMA 143A":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Workshop III","Scene study and song repertoire examined by era for the advanced Music Theatre student. 1800s-1940.","DRAMA 142. Audition required."],"DRAMA 143B":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Workshop III","Scene study and song repertoire examined by era for the advanced Music Theatre student. 1940s-1970s.","DRAMA 142. Audition required."],"DRAMA 143C":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Workshop III","Scene study and song repertoire examined by era for the advanced Music Theatre student. 1970's-present.","DRAMA 142. Audition required."],"DRAMA 144":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Workshop IV","A performance class concentrating on role building. Work culminates with in-class performances of abbreviated versions of musicals.","For B.F.A. students: DRAMA 143A, DRAMA 143B, DRAMA 143C, and audition. For Drama graduate students: audition required."],"DRAMA 145":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Singing","Private weekly voice lessons for the advanced Music Theatre student.",""],"DRAMA 146":["DRAMA","NYSP-Preparation","Class preparation for the New York Satellite Program (NYSP) - an immersion experience in New York City for the musical theatre performer.","Admission is by audition and the following prerequisites: DRAMA 30C and two quarters of DRAMA 148A, DRAMA 148B, or DRAMA 148C (if the 148 prerequisite is not complete at the time of auditions, student must enroll during the fall and winter quarters in the same year as the trip to New York); senior Drama majors must have successfully completed DRAMA 40C and DRAMA 120C; non-Drama majors must have sophomore standing or higher and must carefully plan their course schedule as many spring quarter classes cannot be taken while part of the NYSP."],"DRAMA 148A":["DRAMA","History of American Musical Theatre","A survey of the influential artists who produce, write, direct, and perform on America's musical stages. Surveys 1700s-1940s.",""],"DRAMA 148B":["DRAMA","History of American Musical Theatre","A survey of the influential artists who produce, write, direct, and perform on America's musical stages. Surveys 1940s-1970s.",""],"DRAMA 148C":["DRAMA","History of American Musical Theatre","A survey of the influential artists who produce, write, direct, and perform on America's musical stages. Surveys 1970s to present day.",""],"DRAMA 149":["DRAMA","Music Proficiency for Actors","A musicianship class introducing basic musical terminology, theory, and sight singing skills.",""],"DRAMA 150":["DRAMA","Costume Production Techniques","Studio instruction in pattern making, draping, millinery, and construction techniques.","DRAMA 50A"],"DRAMA 157":["DRAMA","Lighting Composition","Provides an opportunity for students to pursue stage lighting composition in a studio atmosphere.  Laboratory practice includes weekly exercises in style and genre. Emphasis is placed on the realization of conceptual ideas.","DRAMA 50C"],"DRAMA 158":["DRAMA","Topics in Theatre Design","Examines the various functions of scenery and costume: locale, historical period, mood, and atmosphere, with special assignments in each area. Discussion of problems in scenic metaphors and visualization, emphasizing techniques of planning and presentation (e.g., floor plans, models, and rendering).","DRAMA 50A or DRAMA 50B"],"DRAMA 159":["DRAMA","Proseminar in Theatre Design","Topics in theatre design.",""],"DRAMA 164A":["DRAMA","History of Costume","A study of the development of dress and the influence of cultural factors on clothing from the time of Egyptians to Early Baroque.","DRAMA 50A"],"DRAMA 164B":["DRAMA","History of Costume","A study of the development of dress and the influence of cultural factors on clothing from late Baroque to World War I.","DRAMA 50A"],"DRAMA 176":["DRAMA","Script and Score","A form and analysis seminar discussing the libretto and score of landmark musicals.","Two courses from DRAMA 148A or DRAMA 148B or DRAMA 148C."],"DRAMA 177":["DRAMA","Song Repertoire","A song coaching class culminating in a song recital or showcase. Each quarter will feature a different composer, lyricist, or musical style.",""],"DRAMA 180":["DRAMA","Contemporary Dramatic Criticism and Theory","Reading and analysis of theories and critical approaches to contemporary theatre: Brecht, Artaud, and others who have contributed to the form and idea of the modern theatre. Writing of assigned exercises in dramatic criticism.",""],"DRAMA 180W":["DRAMA","Contemporary Dramatic Criticism and Theory","Reading and analysis of theories and critical approaches to contemporary theatre:  Brecht, Artaud, and others who have contributed to the form and idea of the modern theatre. Writing of assigned exercises in dramatic criticism.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"DRAMA 182A":["DRAMA","Dance Technique, Level I","Advanced beginner and intermediate dance training including musical theatre, ballet, jazz and contemporary modern techniques and repertoire.  Body conditioning is also a major component of the course.","DRAMA 65 or DRAMA 142. Audition required."],"DRAMA 182B":["DRAMA","Dance Technique, Level I","Advanced beginner and intermediate dance training including musical theatre, ballet, jazz and contemporary modern techniques and repertoire.  Body conditioning is also a major component of the course.","(DRAMA 65 or DRAMA 142) and DRAMA 182A. Audition required."],"DRAMA 183A":["DRAMA","Dance Technique, Level II","Intermediate and advanced dance training including musical theatre, ballet, jazz and contemporary modern techniques and repertoire.  Body conditioning is also a major component of the course.","DRAMA 65 or DRAMA 142. Audition required."],"DRAMA 183B":["DRAMA","Dance Technique, Level II","Intermediate and advanced dance training including musical theatre, ballet, jazz and contemporary modern techniques and repertoire.  Body conditioning is also a major component of the course.","(DRAMA 65 or DRAMA 142) and DRAMA 183A. Audition required."],"DRAMA 184":["DRAMA","Directing II","The principles of stage directing, covering the director's functions in the areas of interpretation, composition, coaching, and styling a theatrical production. Directing exercises and projects; the final project is the preparation of a hypothetical proposal for a play production.","DRAMA 30A and DRAMA 30B and DRAMA 40A and DRAMA 40B and DRAMA 40C and DRAMA 80"],"DRAMA 185":["DRAMA","Advanced Directing","A seminar in directorial organization and research.  Student prepares a textual and dramaturgical analysis, a production timetable, and a hypothetical production book of an assigned play.","DRAMA 184"],"DRAMA 190":["DRAMA","NYSP-Acting","New York Satellite Program acting classes taught by guest faculty in New York.","DRAMA 146"],"DRAMA 191":["DRAMA","NYSP - Dance","New York Satellite Program dance classes in ballet, tap, jazz, and musical theatre styles taught by guest faculty in New York.","DRAMA 146"],"DRAMA 192":["DRAMA","NYSP - Singing","New York Satellite Program private and group lessons in musical theatre singing taught by guest faculty in New York.","DRAMA 146"],"DRAMA 193":["DRAMA","NYSP - Performance","New York Satellite Program rehearsals and public, staged readings of original musicals in New York.","DRAMA 146"],"DRAMA 194":["DRAMA","NYSP-UCI Residency","New York Satellite Program follow-up classes and performances back on Irvine campus upon the return from New York.","DRAMA 146"],"DRAMA 195":["DRAMA","Music Theatre Dance - Special Topics","Advanced dance classes in specialized areas including the dance styles of a choreographer (de Mille, Fosse, Robbins, Tune, Stroman), genre (tap, ballroom, jazz, swing, hip-hop), or in musical theatre choreography.","DRAMA 182A or DRAMA 182B or DRAMA 183A or DRAMA 183B. Audition required. "],"DRAMA 198":["DRAMA","Director Class Project","For students who are involved in the Director Class Projects at UCI as actors, directors, designers, stage managers and their assistants. M.F.A. Directors and the Head of Directing (HoD) supervise the projects.",""],"DRAMA 199":["DRAMA","Project in Theatre    ","Independent theatre projects with Drama faculty.",""],"DRAMA 200":["DRAMA","Graduate Studio: Acting","Work in graduate studio taken in tandem with graduate studios in stage voice (DRAMA 201), stage speech (DRAMA 202), and stage movement (DRAMA 203).",""],"DRAMA 201":["DRAMA","Graduate Studio: Voice","Graduate studio in vocal production for actors.",""],"DRAMA 202":["DRAMA","Graduate Studio: Speech","Graduate studio in speech for actors.",""],"DRAMA 203":["DRAMA","Graduate Studio: Movement","Work in graduate studio: stage movement taken in tandem with nine graduate studios in acting (DRAMA 200), voice (DRAMA 201), speech (DRAMA 202), and voice\/movement dynamics (DRAMA 206).",""],"DRAMA 206":["DRAMA","Graduate Studio: Voice\/Movement Dynamics","Daily conditioning exercises.",""],"DRAMA 211":["DRAMA","Graduate Studio: Directing","Graduate studio in directing.",""],"DRAMA 219":["DRAMA","Graduate Master Class","Various topics such as Shakespeare, comedy, Moliere, improvisation, Kabuki, television acting.",""],"DRAMA 220":["DRAMA","Seminar in Dramatic Literature","Topics in Dramatic Literature.",""],"DRAMA 225":["DRAMA","Seminar on Theatre Pedagogy","A seminar on the major teaching systems in the dramatic arts with particular attention to professional arts training. Required prior to applying for Teaching Assistantships in studio areas.",""],"DRAMA 240":["DRAMA","Graduate Projects    ","Various projects depending on student's concentration (acting, design, musical theatre, directing).",""],"DRAMA 241":["DRAMA","Singing Pedagogy     ","Learning how to teach voice lessons and coach musical theatre singing. Experiences include both private voice lessons and observing the lessons given to the B.F.A.\/Music Theatre students.",""],"DRAMA 242":["DRAMA","Conducting              ","Private conducting instruction to develop freedom of movement\/expression, baton technique, ear training, and tempo memory for both rehearsal and performance situations in musical theatre.",""],"DRAMA 243":["DRAMA","Script and Score         ","A form and analysis seminar discussing the libretto and score of landmark musicals.",""],"DRAMA 244":["DRAMA","Dramaturgy: Theory and Methods","Examines the practice, place, and theory of dramaturgy.  Explores plays in terms of how they work: dramatic form and structure, historical context, and more. Study includes dramaturgy as a theatrical practice.",""],"DRAMA 246A":["DRAMA","Musical Scene Study I","Musically directing scenes from musicals of various time periods. Features works from the late 19th and early 20th centuries, including songwriters Gilbert and Sullivan, Irving Berlin, George Gershwin, Rodgers and Hart, and Cole Porter.",""],"DRAMA 246B":["DRAMA","Musical Scene Study II","Musically directing scenes from musicals of various time periods. Features works from the middle of the 20th century including songwriters Rodgers and Hammerstein, Lerner and Loewe, Julie Styne, Kander and Ebb, and Jerry Herman.",""],"DRAMA 246C":["DRAMA","Musical Scene Study III","Musically directing scenes from musicals of various time periods.  Features works from the late 20th and early 21st centuries including songwriters Stephen Sondheim, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Stephen Schwartz, Flaherty and Ahrens, and Jeanine Tesori.",""],"DRAMA 247":["DRAMA","Musicals Abridged       ","Musically directing abridged versions of musicals from various time periods and genres.",""],"DRAMA 248A":["DRAMA","History of American Music Theatre","A survey of the influential artists who produce, write, direct, and perform on America's musical stages. Surveys 1700s-1940s.",""],"DRAMA 248B":["DRAMA","History of American Musical Theatre","A survey of the influential artists who produce, write, direct, and perform on America's musical stages. Surveys 1940s-1970s.",""],"DRAMA 248C":["DRAMA","History of American Musical Theatre","A survey of the influential artists who produce, write, direct and perform on America's musical stages. Surveys 1970s to present day.",""],"DRAMA 249":["DRAMA","Graduate Music Direction","Various musical direction activities including the vocal direction, accompanying, and conducting of musical theatre performances.",""],"DRAMA 251A":["DRAMA","Foundations of Theatre","Seeks to create greater understanding in the roots and theories of theatrical models, aesthetics, action vs. reaction of differing thoughts in theatrical doctrine, and art, architecture, music, and fashion that contributed to the style and practice of theatre.",""],"DRAMA 251B":["DRAMA","Foundations of Theatre","Seeks to create greater understanding in the roots and theories of theatrical models, aesthetics, action vs. reaction of differing thoughts in theatrical doctrine, and art, architecture, music, and fashion that contributed to the style and practice of theatre.",""],"DRAMA 251C":["DRAMA","Foundations of Theatre","Seeks to create greater understanding in the roots and theories of theatrical models, aesthetics, action vs. reaction of differing thoughts in theatrical doctrine, and art, architecture, music, and fashion that contributed to the style and practice of theatre.",""],"DRAMA 254":["DRAMA","Graduate Stage Management","Studio exercises and projects in stage management.",""],"DRAMA 255":["DRAMA","Graduate Design Seminar","Projects, lectures, and critical discussion in costume, scenery, lighting, and sound design.",""],"DRAMA 256":["DRAMA","Survival and Professional Practice in Design","Provides an in-depth examination of business skills needed to survive as a theatrical designer. Required 'Bridge' course in the Design MFA programs, relevant to all disciplines.",""],"DRAMA 257A":["DRAMA","Costume Thesis Project","Development of thesis project with focus on organization, research, timeline, and execution.","DRAMA 240"],"DRAMA 257B":["DRAMA","Scenic Thesis Project","Development of thesis project with focus on organization, research, timeline, and execution.",""],"DRAMA 257E":["DRAMA","Thesis Writing Project-Stage Management","Development of thesis topic with focus on organization, research, timeline, and execution.","12 units of DRAMA 254."],"DRAMA 258":["DRAMA","Drawing for Designers","A multi-skill level course in drawing technique focusing on skills essential to stage designers including line, proportion, perspective and creating dynamic compositions. Focus will primarily be in figure drawing but may include still-life, landscape, and architectural drawings. Materials fee.",""],"DRAMA 259":["DRAMA","Theatre Colloquium","Exposes students to a wider range of theatrical practitioners, theories, and topics through guest lecturers, special projects, and cross-disciplinary dialogue.",""],"DRAMA 260A":["DRAMA","Digital Costume Rendering","A studio course in costume rendering for the theatre using computer image manipulation. Instruction in compositing and painting techniques and performance design conventions.",""],"DRAMA 260B":["DRAMA","Digital Textile Design and Printing","A studio course in textile design using digital printing and embossing techniques. Instruction in state-of-the-art software and output manipulation for artistic expression.",""],"DRAMA 261":["DRAMA","Digital Design: Drawing\/Painting\/Rendering","A studio course in scenic or costume rendering for the theatre using the computer for drawing\/painting through the use of the digital pen\/tablet.",""],"DRAMA 262":["DRAMA","Digital Design: 2D\/3D Modeling","A studio course in CAD's 2D drafting and 3D modeling capabilities for theatrical design. Instruction in state-of-the-art software for 2D and 3D object creation and theatrical presentation conventions.",""],"DRAMA 263":["DRAMA","Digital Design: 3D Rendering","A studio course in theatrical design through 3d modeling on computer and use of state-of-the-art rendering software. Instruction emphasizes collaborative design process through the use of scenic designer\/lighting designer teams for all projects.","DRAMA 262"],"DRAMA 264":["DRAMA","Lighting Graphics","A studio course in the various graphic methods employed by lighting designers in the theatre.  Projects include manual and CAD techniques for Light Plot and Paperwork creation.","DRAMA 262"],"DRAMA 265":["DRAMA","Digital Design: 2D CAD","A studio course in theatrical design and architectural lighting design on the computer.  Instruction in state-of-the-art software for 2D object creation.  Theatrical and architectural standards implemented in performance design.","DRAMA 262"],"DRAMA 266":["DRAMA","Digital Design:  Digital Audio Systems","Comprehensive tutorial on digital audio including hard disk recording, editing, data compression, and ethernet audio distribution.  Focus is on recording, editing, and delivery of audio as used by the sound designer in the digital domain.",""],"DRAMA 267":["DRAMA","Digital Design: Creating Sounds from Scratch","The process of analyzing sounds for their core timbral components and using that data to create new sounds - from realistic to fantastic - by means of digital manipulation.","DRAMA 266"],"DRAMA 271":["DRAMA","Conceptual Sound Design","An intensive, project-based seminar for exploring relationships between sound and sight.  Synesthesia, creative intent vs. audience perception, and sound\/movement are typical of the many topics to be explored.  A series of creative projects are assigned and critiqued in peer review.","DRAMA 266"],"DRAMA 272":["DRAMA","Musical Theatre Sound\/Concert Sound","A concept-to-opening study of the process of designing sound systems for musicals and live\/touring sound.  Special attention given to the paperwork and documentation required to package, build, and mix these shows.",""],"DRAMA 277":["DRAMA","Critical Listening","Exploration of the many variables that affect (and effect) the audio chain.  Perceiving and understanding these parameters unlocks the art of controlling sound and stylizing cues.  Also includes the process of equalizing\/aligning sound systems and the art of audio mastering.","DRAMA 266"],"DRAMA 279":["DRAMA","Advanced Sound Design","An in-depth investigation into sound design for the theatre. Special emphasis is placed on text analysis, design conception, content creation, content delivery, and design organization. Class projects include creating paper designs and paperwork for different texts.",""],"DRAMA 280A":["DRAMA","Techniques in Costume Design","Student exercises in the techniques and implementation of costume design.",""],"DRAMA 280B":["DRAMA","Techniques in Scenery Design","Student exercises in the techniques and implementation of scenic design.",""],"DRAMA 280C":["DRAMA","Techniques in Lighting Design","Student exercises in the techniques and implementation of lighting design.",""],"DRAMA 280D":["DRAMA","Techniques in Sound Design","Student exercises in the techniques and implementation of sound design.",""],"DRAMA 282":["DRAMA","Stage Electronics\/Introduction to Show Control","Using computers and dedicated hardware to cue, control or automate sound, scenery, and lighting for live performance and themed entertainment applications.",""],"DRAMA 290":["DRAMA","Dramatic Literature and Theatre History Prior to 1900","Studies in selected areas of dramatic literature and theatre history prior to 1900. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"DRAMA 291":["DRAMA","Dramatic Literature and Theatre History, 1900 to Present","Studies in selected areas of dramatic literature and theatre history, 1900 to present. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"DRAMA 292":["DRAMA","Cultural and Critical Theory","Studies in selected areas of cultural and critical theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"DRAMA 293":["DRAMA","Directed Studies","Directed study with Drama faculty.",""],"DRAMA 294":["DRAMA","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Drama faculty.",""],"DRAMA 295":["DRAMA","Professional Internship","An arranged internship at the South Coast Repertory Theatre, or other equity theatre company, for qualifying M.F.A. students. A stipend and equity points are provided by the theatre company.",""],"DRAMA 297":["DRAMA","Dramaturgy Practicum","Requires doctoral students to identify two plays from the Drama Department's season to work as dramaturges. Students write a Dramaturgy Booklet recording their research and interactions with director, actors, and the design team. Students will work with doctoral faculty.",""],"DRAMA 299":["DRAMA","Performance as Research","Independent or collaborative practical work combined with strong research components, such critical analysis, fieldwork, or theorization. Requires Ph.D. faculty as mentors.",""],"DRAMA 399":["DRAMA","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"EARTHSS 1":["EARTHSS","Introduction to Earth System Science","Covers the origin and evolution of the Earth, its atmosphere, and oceans, from the perspective of biogeochemical cycles, energy use, and human impacts on the Earth system.",""],"EARTHSS 3":["EARTHSS","Oceanography","Examines circulation of the world oceans and ocean chemistry as it relates to river, hydrothermal vent, and atmospheric inputs. Geological features, the wide variety of biological organisms, and global climate changes, such as greenhouse warming, are also studied.",""],"EARTHSS 5":["EARTHSS","The Atmosphere","The composition and circulation of the atmosphere with a focus on explaining the fundamentals of weather and climate. Topics include solar and terrestrial radiation, clouds, and weather patterns.",""],"EARTHSS 7":["EARTHSS","Physical Geology","Introduction to Earth materials and processes. Topics include rocks and minerals, plate tectonics, volcanoes, earthquakes, Earth surface processes, Earth resources, geologic time, and Earth history. Laboratory work involves hands-on study of geologic materials, maps, and exercises pertaining to geologic processes. Materials fee.",""],"EARTHSS 15":["EARTHSS","Introduction to Global Climate Change","Introduction of scientific, technological, environmental, economic, and social aspects underlying the threat and understanding of global climate change. Human and natural drivers of climate. Impacts of climate on natural, managed, and human systems, including their vulnerability and ability to adapt.",""],"EARTHSS 17":["EARTHSS","Hurricanes, Tsunamis, and Other Catastrophes","Introduction to the basic science and state of predictability of various natural catastrophic events including earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, landslides, floods, hurricanes, fires, and asteroid impacts and their interactions and implications with human society in the U.S. and globally.",""],"EARTHSS 19":["EARTHSS","Introduction to Modeling the Earth System","Simulate the Earth's system using computer models. Covers the interaction of the air, land, and ocean, and explores how changes to one part of the environment affect the complete Earth system. Utilizes technological tools to understand scientific principles.",""],"EARTHSS 21":["EARTHSS","On Thin Ice: Climate Change and the Cryosphere","Introduction of the basic science that governs the cryosphere and its interaction with the climate system. Covers some of the significant economic, sociological, and political consequences of the recent melting of the cryosphere driven by anthropogenic climate change.",""],"EARTHSS 23":["EARTHSS","Air Pollution: From Urban Smog to Global Change  ","Air pollution occurs on regional to global scales. A wide range of air pollution sources and physical, chemical, and meteorological sciences behind air pollution are introduced. The consequences of air pollution to our society are also discussed.",""],"EARTHSS 27":["EARTHSS","The Sustainable Ocean","An introduction to sustainability as it relates to marine resources and conservation. Topics include the scientific basis of our understanding of marine ecosystems, and the political, social, and cultural principles that govern resource protection.",""],"EARTHSS 40A":["EARTHSS","Earth System Chemistry","To understand the cycling of matter on Earth, we need to learn about the chemistry of elements and molecules in the environment. Introduces students to the understanding of how chemical principles apply in context to their everyday lives.",""],"EARTHSS 40B":["EARTHSS","Earth System Biology","Earth System Science is a highly interdisciplinary field that requires knowledge of various components of the Earth as a system, including the biosphere. Students are introduced to several fundamental principles of biology, from the smallest cells to the largest ecosystems.",""],"EARTHSS 40C":["EARTHSS","Earth System Physics","Covers the fundamental physical forces and laws that affect the Earth system, such as electromagnetic radiation and energy transfer, atmospheric and ocean dynamics. Also covers aspects of physics related to environmental issues, such as electricity generation and transmission.",""],"EARTHSS 45":["EARTHSS","New Student Seminar","Weekly meetings led by faculty, current students, and staff, to provide information on the Department of Earth System Science, campus resources, and special programs and opportunities. Designed for students who recently joined the Earth System Science and Environmental Science majors.",""],"EARTHSS 51":["EARTHSS","Land Interactions","The role of terrestrial processes in the Earth system. Provides an introduction to ecosystem processes that regulate the cycling of energy, water, carbon, and nutrients. Analysis of the impact of human activities. Materials fee.",""],"EARTHSS 53":["EARTHSS","Ocean Biogeochemistry","Overview of oceanography for those interested in Earth System Science. Focus is on physical, chemical, and biological processes that drive biogeochemical cycling in the oceans. Coastal systems are also reviewed, with an emphasis on California waters.","CHEM 1C"],"EARTHSS 55":["EARTHSS","Earth's Atmosphere","Composition, physics, and circulation of Earth's atmosphere with an emphasis on explaining the role of atmospheric processes in shaping the climate system. Topics include atmospheric composition, the global energy balance, radiative transfer and climate, atmospheric circulation, and climate sensitivity.","r corequisite: (MATH 2B or MATH 5B) and (PHYSICS 3B or PHYSICS 7C)"],"EARTHSS 70A":["EARTHSS","Sustainable Energy Systems","Addresses how modern energy services can be provided sustainably and the challenges and barriers that must be overcome. Major environmental issues are discussed, such as climate change, air pollution, and resource demands.","r corequisite: EARTHSS 40C or PHYSICS 3C or PHYSICS 7E"],"EARTHSS 70B":["EARTHSS","Sustainable Food and Water Systems","Explores the biophysical underpinnings of food production, the history of agricultural development, and a range of environmental issues facing agricultural systems, including water management, climate change, and land use.","r corequisite: EARTHSS 40B or (BIO SCI 93 and BIO SCI 94)"],"EARTHSS 100":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Earth System Science","Devoted to current topics in the field of Earth System Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 101":["EARTHSS","Paleoclimatology","Explores past changes in Earth's climate. Topics include tools and techniques used to reconstruct past climate from natural archives; records and mechanisms of past climate changes throughout Earth history; and lessons learned from the paleo-record for predication of future climate.","EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55"],"EARTHSS 112":["EARTHSS","Global Climate Change and Impacts","Observations over the 20th century show extensive changes in atmospheric composition, climate and weather, and biological systems that have paralleled industrial growth. Evidence of globally driven changes in these biogeochemical systems is studied, including projected impacts over the 21st century.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 114":["EARTHSS","Earth System Science Laboratory and Field Methods"," Introduction to methods used to measure exchange of gases and energy between the atmosphere and terrestrial ecosystems. Laboratories include data acquisition and isotopic and chromatographic analysis. Field measurements at UCI's Marsh Reserve include microclimate, hydrology, trace-gas exchange, and plant growth. Materials fee.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 115":["EARTHSS","Aquatic Field Methods","Students design sampling plans, conduct field research techniques, and carry out data analyses that are relevant to aquatic field research. Aquatic field sites covered in the course include marine, estuarine, and fluvial systems. Materials fee.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 116":["EARTHSS","Introduction to Environmental Data Science","Analysis and interpretation of geophysical data, including functional fitting, probability density functions, and multidimensional time-series methods, with applications in atmospheric, oceanic, and biogeochemical sciences.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 118":["EARTHSS","Analysis, Modeling, and Visualization of Multidimensionnal Environmental Data","Students learn programming and numerical methods in Python with applications in Earth System Science and ecology. Topics include regression, uncertainty and significance, the development of simple box models, and the visualization of multi-dimensional climate and satellite datasets.","I&C SCI 31 or EARTHSS 116"],"EARTHSS 122":["EARTHSS","Atmospheric Dynamics","Fluid dynamical processes that determine the large-scale flow of the atmosphere and ocean. Most important are interactions between the density stratification and the Coriolis force associated with Earth's rotation. Topics include circulation, vorticity, planetary waves, and their role in climate.","EARTHSS 55 and (PHYSICS 7C or PHYSICS 3B)"],"EARTHSS 124":["EARTHSS","Weather Analysis","Provides an overview of weather systems in midlatitudes and tropics. The fundamental dynamics possible for these weather systems are described. Elementary weather analysis and forecasting techniques are introduced.","EARTHSS 55"],"EARTHSS 130":["EARTHSS","Physical Oceanography","Physical processes that determine the distribution of water properties such as salt and temperature. Fluid-dynamical underpinnings of physical oceanography. Wave motions. The wind-driven and thermohaline circulation. Similarities and differences between ocean and atmosphere dynamics.","(PHYSICS 7C or PHYSICS 3B) and EARTHSS 53"],"EARTHSS 132":["EARTHSS","Terrestrial Hydrology","Comprehensive treatment of modern conceptual and methodological approaches to hydrological science. Combines qualitative understanding of hydrological processes with quantitative representation, approaches to measurement, and treatment of uncertainty. Components of the hydrological cycle and their linkages within the coupled Earth system.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 40C and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 133":["EARTHSS","Soil: It's the Good Dirt","An introduction to the critical role soils play in sustaining land ecosystems and humans. Covers how soils form and how human actions contribute to the pollution and loss but also the health and productivity of soils.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 134":["EARTHSS","Fundamentals of GIS for Environmental Science","Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Topics include fundamentals of cartography, creating\/editing GIS data, linking spatial and tabular data, georeferencing, map projections, geospatial analysis, spatial statistics, and the development of GIS models. Examples from hydrology, ecology, and geology.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 138":["EARTHSS","Satellite Remote Sensing for Earth System Science","Satellite remote sensing data are increasingly used to study the Earth system. Provides an overview of the principles behind remote sensing, and the types of satellite data available for study of the oceans, land, and atmosphere.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 140":["EARTHSS","Advanced Geology","Introduces students to the geological processes which have formed and continue to shape the Earth. Topics include geological time, minerals and the rock cycle, plate tectonics and associated geological hazards, earth resources, and earth surface processes. Materials fee.","EARTHSS 51 or EARTHSS 70B"],"EARTHSS 141":["EARTHSS","Air Quality Management","Fundamental science and terminology of regional air quality issues and developing and implementing the strategies used to prevent and mitigate air pollution impacts. Topics include setting regional air quality goals, applying measurements and numerical models, cost\/benefits analysis, evaluation and enforcement.","EARTHSS 40A and EARTHSS 40B and EARTHSS 40C"],"EARTHSS 142":["EARTHSS","Atmospheric Chemistry","Chemistry of the troposphere and stratosphere. Topics include processes controlling the lifetime and reaction pathways of chemicals in the atmosphere, the role of the atmosphere in biogeochemical cycles, and interactions between atmospheric chemistry and the physical climate system.","(CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M3C) and (PHYSICS 3C or PHYSICS 7E) and (MATH 2B or MATH 5B or AP Calculus BC). AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"EARTHSS 144":["EARTHSS","Marine Geochemistry and Biogeochemistry","Processes controlling the major and minor element composition of seawater and element distributions in the ocean. Gas exchange, carbon dioxide system, stable isotopes, radionuclides as tracers and chronometers, particle fluxes, organic geochemistry, sediment geochemistry, global cycles of biogeochemically important elements.","EARTHSS 53 or CHEM 51C"],"EARTHSS 146":["EARTHSS","Consequences of Air Pollution","From public health to the global climate system, this course explores the impacts of air pollution from the beginning of human history to current and emerging issues. Scientific concepts behind air pollution and solutions are discussed.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 40C and EARTHSS 70A)"],"EARTHSS 148":["EARTHSS","Marine Ecosystems and Global Change","Presents an overview of marine ecosystem structure, diversity, and processes in the context of global change, including the impacts of climate warming, ocean acidification, marine fisheries, and anthropogenic additions of nutrients and pollutants.","EARTHSS 53 or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 154":["EARTHSS","Ecosystem Services","Covers what ecosystem services are, how to classify them, what the impacts of land degradation are on ecosystem services, how to quantify and value them, and the importance of mainstreaming ecosystem services in decision-making.","(EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B) or (EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55)"],"EARTHSS 156":["EARTHSS","The Future of Forests","Introduces students to the determinants of global forest distribution; ecosystem services associated with forest functioning; threats to forests resulting from climate and land-use change; and, opportunities for conserving natural forests in the near future.","(EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B) or (EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55)"],"EARTHSS 162":["EARTHSS","The Impact of Climate Change on California's Landscape","Overview of anticipated impacts of climate change on California's landscape. Includes projections of future climate; anticipated impacts on ecology, hydrology, wildfire, coastal environment, and agriculture; and efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or adapt to climate change through land management.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 164":["EARTHSS","Ecosystem Ecology","A mechanistic perspective on ecosystem processes. Covers ecosystem development, element cycling, and interactions with plants and microbes. The role of ecosystems in environmental change is also addressed.","BIO SCI E106 or EARTHSS 51 or EARTHSS 60A or CHEM 51C"],"EARTHSS 168":["EARTHSS","Physiological Plant Ecology","An examination of the interactions between plants and their environment. Emphasis on the underlying physiological mechanisms of plant function, adaptations and responses to stress, and the basis of the distribution of plants and plant assemblages across the landscape.","EARTHSS 51 or BIO SCI 94 or (EARTHSS 60A and EARTHSS 60C)"],"EARTHSS 171":["EARTHSS","Microbial Biogeochemistry","Develops an understanding of microorganisms in the context of their environment, environmental impact, and role in the global cycles of C,N,P, etc. Focuses on tools used to evaluate microbial diversity and function, and applications of microbial ecology.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B)"],"EARTHSS 176W":["EARTHSS","Marine Conservation, Policy, and Society","Conservation of marine ecosystems is important yet challenging due to competing physical, ecological, social, and regulatory issues. Students explore the principles of marine conservation, the scientific basics of marine ecosystems, and political and social processes involved with resource protection.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EARTHSS 177W":["EARTHSS","Documenting and Understanding Earth System Change","Students select a time series of key environmental interest as the focus for their writing.They become familiar with common writing practices for the Earth Sciences, and exercise their ability to use the scientific method to produce reports.","(EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53 and EARTHSS 55) or (EARTHSS 70A and EARTHSS 70B). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EARTHSS 179":["EARTHSS","Climate Solutions","Introduction to climate change science and impacts on the health of people and the planet with a focus on the multi-dimensional aspects of solutions to the climate crisis.",""],"EARTHSS 190A":["EARTHSS","Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability I","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability. Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum is also required. Seminar utilized to analyze forum presentations.  Prepare bibliography.",""],"EARTHSS 190B":["EARTHSS","Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability II","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability. Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum is also required. Seminar utilized to analyze forum presentations.  Prepare research proposal.","BIO SCI 191A or SOCECOL 186A or EARTHSS 190A"],"EARTHSS 190CW":["EARTHSS","Writing\/Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability III","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability.  Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum also is required.  Seminar utilized to analyze Forum presentations and to prepare senior research paper.  Prepare\/write research paper under direction of faculty member.","BIO SCI 191B or EARTHSS 190B or SOCECOL 186B. BIO SCI 191B or EARTHSS 190B or SOCECOL 186B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EARTHSS 191":["EARTHSS","Introduction to Research in Earth System Science","Weekly presentations by Earth System Science faculty describing ongoing research in their laboratories. Students are introduced to the range of research topics and methods in Earth System Science and to the research opportunities available within the Department.","(EARTHSS 60A and EARTHSS 60B) or (EARTHSS 51 and EARTHSS 53)"],"EARTHSS 192":["EARTHSS","Careers in Earth System Science","A weekly seminar course designed to help students transition to post-graduation career paths. Topics include designing effective resumes, applying to graduate school, and seeking employment. Also includes presentations by faculty, business, and government leaders describing potential environmental science career trajectories.",""],"EARTHSS 197":["EARTHSS","Independent Study in Earth System Science","Field study, educational outreach, or other independent projects under faculty direction. Interested students should arrange with an ESS faculty member to supervise and support an independent study project. A written summary is required at the end of each quarter.",""],"EARTHSS 198W":["EARTHSS","Senior Thesis in Earth System Science","Students receive guidance on the effective oral and written communication of research results. Students prepare and present a seminar, a poster, and a written thesis describing their research in Earth System Science.","Two quarters of EARTHSS 199. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EARTHSS H198":["EARTHSS","Honors Thesis in Earth System Science","Students receive guidance on effective written and oral communication of research results.  Students prepare and present a seminar, poster, and written thesis describing their honors research in Earth System Science.  Submission of the thesis and successful completion of this course will also satisfy the UCI upper-division writing requirement.","ESS 199A and ESS 199B"],"EARTHSS 199":["EARTHSS","Undergraduate Research","For undergraduates with majors in science or engineering. Interested students should arrange with an ESS faculty member to supervise and support a research project. A written summary is required at the end of each quarter.",""],"EARTHSS H199A":["EARTHSS","Honors Research in Earth System Science","Undergraduate honors research in Earth System Science. A student commitment of 10-15 hours a week is expected, and a written report is required at the end of the quarter.",""],"EARTHSS H199B":["EARTHSS","Honors Research in Earth System Science","Undergraduate honors research in Earth System Science. A student commitment of 10-15 hours a week is expected, and a written report is required at the end of the quarter.",""],"EARTHSS H199C":["EARTHSS","Honors Research in Earth System Science","Undergraduate honors research in Earth System Science. A student commitment of 10-15 hours a week is expected, and a written report is required at the end of the quarter.",""],"EARTHSS 200":["EARTHSS","Global Physical Climatology","A descriptive overview of Earth's climate system and energy budget. Large-scale circulations, key physical processes, and climate sensitivity of the atmosphere, ocean, land surface, and cryosphere.",""],"EARTHSS 204":["EARTHSS","Humans in the Earth System","Focuses on the human systems of energy and food production which have the greatest effects on the Earth system. Assess the physical mechanisms and feedbacks of human-nature interactions and consider approaches of mitigation, interventions, and adaptation.",""],"EARTHSS 212":["EARTHSS","Geoscience Modeling and Data Analysis","Computer-based course. Fundamental statistical techniques needed to analyze Earth system data and models. Basic numerical techniques to solve Earth system models. Focuses on linear and non-linear ordinary differential equations, as well as simple partial differential equations.",""],"EARTHSS 215":["EARTHSS","Cryosphere","A global perspective of the major components of the cryosphere. Includes current extent and trends, mass balance, energetics, and physical processes. Quantitative assessment of current state, in situ and remote observations, and interactions with climate.",""],"EARTHSS 225":["EARTHSS","Marine Biogeochemistry","Overview of ocean biology and biogeochemistry, with a focus on lower trophic levels and the roles of biota in the marine biogeochemical cycles of key elements.",""],"EARTHSS 226":["EARTHSS","Land Surface Processes","A mechanistic perspective of the structure and functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. Includes processes such as nutrient cycling, biogeochemical cycling, mass balance, energetics, terrestrial hydrology, and water cycle.",""],"EARTHSS 230":["EARTHSS","Physical Oceanography","Physical processes that determine the distribution of water properties such as salt and temperature.  Fluid-dynamical underpinnings of physical oceanography.  Wave motions.  The wind-driven and thermohaline circulation.  Similarities and differences between ocean and atmosphere dynamics.","MATH 2D and PHYSICS 7A and PHYSICS 7B and PHYSICS 7E"],"EARTHSS 238":["EARTHSS","Satellite Remote Sensing for Earth System Science","Satellite remote sensing data are increasingly used to study the Earth system. Provides an overview of the principles behind remote sensing, and the types of satellite data available for study of the oceans, land, and atmosphere.",""],"EARTHSS 242":["EARTHSS","Advanced Atmospheric Chemistry","Chemistry of the troposphere and stratosphere.  Topics include: processes controlling the lifetime and reaction pathways of chemicals in the atmosphere, the role of the atmosphere in biogeochemical cycles, and interactions between atmospheric chemistry and the physical climate system.",""],"EARTHSS 244":["EARTHSS","Introduction to Atmospheric Dynamics","Covers fundamentals of atmospheric dynamics including thermodynamics, quasi-geostrophy, the weak-temperature gradient of the tropics, and the turbulent boundary layer.",""],"EARTHSS 248":["EARTHSS","Marine Ecosystems and Global Change","Presents an overview of marine ecosystem structure, diversity, and processes in the context of global change, including the impacts of climate warming, ocean acidification, marine fisheries, and anthropogenic additions of nutrients and pollutants.","EARTHSS 224"],"EARTHSS 252":["EARTHSS","Environmental Isotope Geochemistry","Covers the fundamentals of stable, radioactive, and radiogenic isotope variability in the Earth System. Focuses on theory, measurement techniques, biogeochemistry, hydrology, ecology, and climate related applications.",""],"EARTHSS 256":["EARTHSS","Paleoclimatology and Paleoceanography","Explores past changes in Earth's climate. Topics include tools and techniques used to reconstruct past climate from natural archives; records and mechanisms of past climate changes throughout Earth history; and lessons learned from the paleo-record for prediction of future climate.",""],"EARTHSS 264":["EARTHSS","Ecosystem Ecology ","A mechanistic perspective on ecosystem processes. Covers ecosystem development, element cycling, and interactions with plants and microbes. The role of ecosystems in environmental change is also addressed.","CHEM 51C"],"EARTHSS 266":["EARTHSS","Global Biogeochemical Cycles","Global biogeochemical cycling of the elements. Topics include global cycling of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; impact of human activities on biogeochemical processes.",""],"EARTHSS 280A":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Earth System Science","Each quarter is devoted to current topics in the field of Earth System Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"EARTHSS 280B":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Earth System Science","Each quarter is devoted to current topics in the field of Earth System Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","EARTHSS 280A"],"EARTHSS 280C":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Earth System Science","Each quarter is devoted to current topics in the field of Earth System Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","EARTHSS 280B"],"EARTHSS 282C":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Climate","Each quarter is devoted to in-depth analysis of an important and rapidly developing area in the field of climate dynamics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","EARTHSS 282B"],"EARTHSS 286A":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Biogeochemistry","Each quarter is devoted to in-depth analysis of a subarea in biogeochemistry which is undergoing rapid development.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"EARTHSS 286B":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Biogeochemistry","Each quarter is devoted to in-depth analysis of a subarea in biogeochemistry which is undergoing rapid development.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.","EARTHSS 286A"],"EARTHSS 286C":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Biogeochemistry","Each quarter is devoted to in-depth analysis of a subarea in biogeochemistry which is undergoing rapid development.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.","EARTHSS 286B"],"EARTHSS 288C":["EARTHSS","Special Topics in Ecosystems","Each quarter is devoted to current topics relating to Ecosystems. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","EARTHSS 288B"],"EARTHSS 290":["EARTHSS","Seminar","Weekly seminars and discussions on topics of general and current interest in Earth System Science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"EARTHSS 298":["EARTHSS","Practicum in Earth System Science","Designed to introduce first-year graduate students to research. Students explore research opportunities and develop a proposal for a summer research project under the direction of a faculty mentor.",""],"EARTHSS 299":["EARTHSS","Research","Supervised original research in areas of Earth System Science.",""],"EARTHSS 399":["EARTHSS","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"EAS 15C":["EAS","Introductory Topics in Chinese Literature","Introduces students to major themes in Chinese literature and culture through the close reading, discussion, and analysis of selected texts in English translation.",""],"EAS 15J":["EAS","Introductory Topics in Japanese Literature","Introduces students to major themes in Japanese literature and culture through the close reading, discussion, and analysis of selected texts in English translation.",""],"EAS 15K":["EAS","Introductory Topics in Korean Literature","Introduces students to major themes in Korean literature and culture through the close reading, discussion, and analysis of selected texts in English translation.",""],"EAS 20":["EAS","Topics in Asian Religions      ","An introduction to Asian religions (Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Shamanism) including both elite doctrinal aspects and forms of more popular religiosity.",""],"EAS 40":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Popular Culture","Selected topics in the popular cultural traditions of East Asia designed to introduce students both to problems in situating culture in a specific time and place and to contemporary theories of popular culture and their application to East Asian contexts.",""],"EAS 55":["EAS"," Introduction to East Asian Cultures ","Interdisciplinary courses organized each year around a broad theme designed to introduce students to the cultures of East Asia. Topical organization of courses addresses issues that have been of importance historically and are reshaping East Asia today.",""],"EAS H84":["EAS","Traveling East\/West","Traveling East\/West presents a wide range of travel writings by Chinese, Indian, and Euro-American authors in which they contemplate the complexities of cross-cultural encounters and how knowledge about others and knowledge of ourselves are closely intertwined.",""],"EAS 110":["EAS","Topics in Chinese Literature and Society","Studies in Chinese texts in their social and cultural context(s). Conducted in English.",""],"EAS 116":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Religions","Selected topics in the religions of East Asia, e.g., Buddhism, Daoism, Shinto, Christianity, popular religions.",""],"EAS 117":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Philosophy","Selected topics in the philosophies of East Asia, e.g., Yoga, Buddhism, Vedanta, Confucianism, Taoism, and Shinto.",""],"EAS 120":["EAS","Topics in Japanese Literature and Society","Studies in Japanese texts in their social and cultural context(s). Conducted in English.",""],"EAS 123":["EAS","Structure of Japanese","An overview of the linguistic features of modern Japanese. Provides students with a systematic introduction to the nature and characteristics of the language.",""],"EAS 126":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Linguistics","In-depth examination of selected topics in the linguistics of East Asian languages, including Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese.",""],"EAS 130":["EAS","Topics in Korean Society and Culture","Studies of the social and cultural forces that affect the lives of the Koreans, including those in the United States. Considers traditional values and contemporary issues within a historical framework.",""],"EAS 140":["EAS","Topics in Korean Literature and Society","Studies in Korean texts in their social and cultural context(s). Conducted in English.",""],"EAS 150":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Literature in Translation","East Asian literary works in translation. Taught in English.",""],"EAS 155":["EAS","Topics in Cultural Studies in East Asia","Interdisciplinary and theoretical introduction to issues in cultural studies that are pertinent to the study of East Asia. All readings in English.",""],"EAS 160":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Cinema","Study of East Asian cinema from historical, theoretical, and comparative perspectives. Taught in English.",""],"EAS 170":["EAS","Topics in Gender in East Asia  ","Explores the construction of gender in East Asian cultures and literatures. Pays close attention to the specificity of historical, cultural, and literary contexts of East Asia as it investigates various theoretical and critical perspectives on gender and sexuality.",""],"EAS 190":["EAS","Junior-Senior Colloquium","Specialized courses dealing with primary sources; required reports and papers. Each colloquium reflects the instructor's intellectual interest and is conducted as a discussion group. Limited to 15 students.",""],"EAS 192W":["EAS","Junior-Senior Seminar","Analysis of a literary or cultural topic or problem through research and writing of two short and one long research paper for a minimum of 4,000 total words. Seminar follows EAS 190; related to the colloquium's subject.","EAS 190. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EAS 199":["EAS","Independent Study","Investigation of special topics through directed reading in translation. Paper required.",""],"EAS 216":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Religions ","Selected topics in the religions of East Asia, e.g., Buddhism, Daoism, Shinto, Islam, shamanism.",""],"EAS 220":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Cultural Studies","Seminar, with topics varying from year to year. Research paper required.",""],"EAS 225":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Applied Linguistics","In-depth examination of selected topics in applied linguistics, with a particular emphasis on language acquisition and language pedagogy.",""],"EAS 260":["EAS","Topics in East Asian Cinema","An examination of the possibilities of East Asian cinematic narrative. Possible topics: cinematic history; cinema in popular culture; comparisons with literary texts; major auteurs. Emphasis on technical as well as on thematic aspects. Includes readings in film theory.","EAS 160"],"EAS 290":["EAS","Independent Study","Directed research on topic determined in consultation with faculty member. A term paper or project is required.",""],"EAS 299":["EAS","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research for students who are advanced to doctoral candidacy.",""],"EAS 399":["EAS","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"ECO EVO 200A":["ECO EVO","Research in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Individual research with Ecology and Evolutionary Biological faculty.",""],"ECO EVO 200B":["ECO EVO","Research in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Individual research with Ecology and Evolutionary Biological faculty.",""],"ECO EVO 200C":["ECO EVO","Research in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Individual research with Ecology and Evolutionary Biological faculty.",""],"ECO EVO 201":["ECO EVO","Seminar in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Invited speakers, graduate students, and faculty present current research in ecology and evolutionary biology.",""],"ECO EVO 203A":["ECO EVO","Graduate Tutorial in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Advanced study in areas not represented by formal courses. May involve individual or small group study through reading, discussion, and composition.",""],"ECO EVO 203B":["ECO EVO","Graduate Tutorial in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Advanced study in areas not represented by formal courses. May involve individual or small group study through reading, discussion, and composition.",""],"ECO EVO 203C":["ECO EVO","Graduate Tutorial in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Advanced study in areas not represented by formal courses. May involve individual or small group study through reading, discussion, and composition.",""],"ECO EVO 204":["ECO EVO","Writing Grant Proposals","Provides students with hands-on experience writing proposals in the research areas of ecology, evolution, or physiology.",""],"ECO EVO 205":["ECO EVO","Special Topics in Ecology","Survey of special topics in Ecology.",""],"ECO EVO 206":["ECO EVO","Special Topics in Evolution","Extensive introduction to the primary literature of evolutionary biology. Topics include population genetics, quantitative genetics, neutralism, molecular evolution, evolution of genetic systems, genetic architecture of fitness, speciation, and macroevolution.",""],"ECO EVO 207":["ECO EVO","Quantitative Methods in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology","Statistics for ecologists and evolutionary biologists. Emphasis on specific applications and underlying assumptions rather than on methods of calculation. Topics include experimental design, parametric and nonparametric methods, analysis of variance and covariance, and multiple regression.","Completion of at least one quarter of statistics including regression and analysis of variance."],"ECO EVO 208":["ECO EVO","Ecological and Evolutionary Physiology","A summary of information in organismal biology, comparative and ecological physiology, and the biophysical basis of organismal function. Course offered every other fall.",""],"ECO EVO 210":["ECO EVO","Foundations of Physiology","Physical and functional principles common to many living forms. Course forms a basis for subsequent specialization in any of the subdisciplines of physiology. Course offered in even years.",""],"ECO EVO 221":["ECO EVO","Advanced Topics in Ecology","Weekly discussion of current topics in ecology at the graduate level.",""],"ECO EVO 222":["ECO EVO","Statistical Learning in Ecology and Evolution","Reviews basic principals of variance\/bias trade-offs. Topics include models for prediction and classification, variable selection methods, cross-validation, tree based methods, unsupervised learning. Applications in ecology and evolution using R.","ECO EVO 207. ECO EVO 207 with a grade of B or better"],"ECO EVO 227":["ECO EVO","Plant Physiological Ecology","Provides a summary of information on plant organismal biology, comparative and ecological physiology, and functional ecology. Offered every other fall.",""],"ECO EVO 230":["ECO EVO","Topics in Microbial Ecology","Weekly discussion of current topics in ecology, biogeochemistry, evolution, and physiology of microbial organisms.",""],"ECO EVO 231":["ECO EVO","Communication Skills for Environmental Scholars","Students learn to communicate with non-specialist audiences about climate and environmental issues. Hands-on activities build technical, presentation, and contextual skills required for effective communication across a range of media types and careers.",""],"ECO EVO 235":["ECO EVO","Experimental Evolution","Explores experimental evolution, which is now a well-established part of evolutionary biology. With the advent of genomics, it is now one of the most powerful tools for studying the genetic foundations of biology.","BIO SCI E106"],"ECO EVO 236":["ECO EVO","Human Dimensions in Conservation and Restoration","The non-human \"environment\" we know today is the result of past social, political, scientific, and economic forces. Examines the forces that drove environmental conservation efforts, which often sought progress at the expense of local cultures.",""],"ECO EVO 237":["ECO EVO","Marine Conservation Ecology","Theory-based seminar tackles pressing issues in marine ecology, conservation, and restoration. Focuses on the science of marine ecosystems, resources and tools for their conservation, and management and the socioeconomic and policy dimensions.",""],"ECO EVO 246":["ECO EVO","Seminar in Ecology and Evolution Education","Weekly discussion of teaching techniques and challenges that are specific to courses in ecology and evolutionary biology.  Emphasis will be on using evidence-based pedagogy techniques.  There will be a combination of readings, group discussions and speakers.",""],"ECO EVO 247":["ECO EVO","Behavioral Endocrinology","Comparative examination of the major hormone systems that regulate behavior across animals. Emphasizes the reciprocating nature of hormone-behavior interactions and seeks to understand how natural selection drives the evolution of hormone structure and function.",""],"ECO EVO 253":["ECO EVO","Functional and Structural Evolutionary Genomics","Function and organization of genomes analyzed from an evolutionary perspective. Review of some of the most recent experimental approaches in genome analysis and comparative genomics. Relevant software to analyze DNA and expression data is used.",""],"ECO EVO 262":["ECO EVO","Professional Workshop","Identify and attend professional or technical skill workshops to gain professional knowledge and certifications related to conservation and restoration science.",""],"ECO EVO 264":["ECO EVO","Conservation Biology","Explores concepts in ecology with potential for conserving biological diversity. Identifies creative applications of ecological research that mitigate impacts of rapid human population growth and habitat destruction on biodiversity.",""],"ECO EVO 265":["ECO EVO","Restoration Ecology","Study of principles and practices that help recover degraded ecosystems  including restoration in different ecological systems, restoration motives and intensities, implementation and monitoring, and scope and success of case studies.",""],"ECO EVO 266L":["ECO EVO","Field Methods in Restoration","Laboratory experience performing field methods that help recover degraded ecosystems  in different ecological systems.  Emphasis on the plant community composition, soil, irrigation, maintenance, and monitoring of a project.",""],"ECO EVO 267":["ECO EVO","Science Communication","Develops students' abilities to convey information related to conservation and restoration in a way that has broad appeal and\/or effective messaging for non-scientific audiences by assessing the audience, developing effective storytelling, and deploying a persuasive information campaign.",""],"ECO EVO 268":["ECO EVO","Technical Writing","Practice developing key documents for restoration projects including a response to a request for proposal (RFP), a restoration project plan, and a monitoring and maintenance plan.",""],"ECO EVO 269":["ECO EVO","Project Management","Discover the planning, design, implementation, and aftercare phases of managing a conservation or restoration project.  Students will project cost, manage risk, analyze sites, evaluate and review projects, and become familiar with common permitting and consultation requirements.",""],"ECO EVO 270":["ECO EVO","GIS for Environmental Science","Introduction to the fundamental principles of GIS. Topics include cartography, creating\/editing GIS data, georeferencing, map projections, geospatial analysis, spatial statistics, and development of GIS models. Focuses on theory and practice.",""],"ECO EVO 271":["ECO EVO","Marine Research and Conservation Methods","Field-based introduction to marine ecology and conservation management through the study of the ecology, resource management, and conservation of marine habitats and species, and the use of a variety of marine field research methods.",""],"ECO EVO 275":["ECO EVO","Wildlife Ecology and Sampling","Field-based introduction to wildlife management through the study of the ecology, physiology, population biology management, and conservation of vertebrate wildlife species, and the use of a variety of different wildlife sampling techniques.",""],"ECO EVO 282":["ECO EVO","Fundamentals of Informatics for Biologists","Students learn the fundamentals of bioinformatics and the unix operating system (including the shell and Sun Grid Engine) in order to assemble a eukaryotic genome.",""],"ECO EVO 283":["ECO EVO","Advanced Informatics for Biologists","Students learn advanced informatics including the analysis of: Poolseq, RNAseq, ATACseq, and ChiPseq datasets using programs such as bwa, tophat, cufflinks, DEseq, Trinity, Agustus, etc., in a unix high-performance computing environment. Statistical tests carried out and publication quality.","ECO EVO 282"],"ECO EVO 285":["ECO EVO","Topics in Evolutionary Genetics","Weekly discussion of recent research on evolutionary genetics.",""],"ECO EVO 286":["ECO EVO","MCRS Capstone","Apply knowledge and skills in a practical professional setting, working with practitioners to identify a conservation or management problem and then to plan, implement, and evaluate a solution.",""],"ECO EVO 341":["ECO EVO","Teaching Science in Secondary School","Prospective secondary science teachers learn how to teach science in grades 7-12. Covers State science requirements, a variety of teaching methods, criteria for selecting science curricular materials, and how to plan science lessons, units, experiments, projects, and demonstrations.",""],"ECO EVO 399":["ECO EVO","University Teaching","Mandatory course for Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Teaching Assistants, required in each quarter in which student has a Teaching Assistant position. Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"ECON 1":["ECON","Introduction to Economics","An analysis of the problems society faces in organizing itself to provide goods and services. How decisions of government, business, and the individual relate to current economic problems such as unemployment, inflation, poverty, and environmental pollution.",""],"ECON 11":["ECON","The Internet and Public Policy","How the Internet works. Current public policy issues concerning the Internet. Introductory economics. Communications law. Interactions between information technology, economics, and law. Case studies about Internet and communications policy.",""],"ECON 12":["ECON","Federal Reserve: Past, Present, and Future","Studies central banking in the United States from colonial times to the present. Focuses on the past, present, and future of the Federal Reserve and precursors to that system, which was established in 1913.",""],"ECON 13":["ECON","Global Economy","Acquaints students with the fundamental patterns of the global economy. Emphasizes the historical roots and political implications of economic choices.",""],"ECON 15A":["ECON","Probability and Statistics in Economics I","An introduction to probability, statistics, and econometrics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Examples from economics.","MATH 2A and MATH 2B"],"ECON 15B":["ECON","Probability and Statistics in Economics II","An introduction to probability, statistics, and econometrics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Examples from economics.","ECON 15A"],"ECON 17":["ECON","An Economic Approach to Religion","Introduction to how basic economic concepts such as demand, supply, consumption, production, competition, free-riding, innovation, regulation, and rent-seeking can be applied to understand observed religious behavior.",""],"ECON 20A":["ECON","Basic Economics I","The fundamentals of microeconomics. The behavior of firms and consumers: markets, supply\/demand, utility maximization, resource allocation, and efficiency.",""],"ECON 20B":["ECON","Basic Economics II","The fundamentals of macroeconomics. Government behavior: monetary and fiscal policy, inflation, and unemployment. Effective fall 2006, the content of Economics 20B is macroeconomics. This course cannot be taken to repeat Economics 20B taken prior to fall 2006.","ECON 20A or ECON 13 or ECON 23"],"ECON 23":["ECON","Basic Economics for Engineers","The fundamentals of microeconomics. The behavior of firms and of consumers: markets, supply\/demand, utility maximization, resource allocation, and efficiency.",""],"ECON 25":["ECON","The Economics of Accounting Decisions","Introduction to accounting concepts and principles, including the accounting model and accounting style, transaction analysis, and preparation of financial statements. An analysis of the similarities and differences between accounting and economic concepts (e.g., value, profits).","ECON 20A"],"ECON 100A":["ECON","Intermediate Economics I","Determinants of supply and demand; operation of competitive and monopolistic markets; imperfections of the market system, explanations of unemployment, inflation, recessions; public policy for macroeconomic problems.","ECON 20A and ECON 20B and MATH 2A and MATH 2B"],"ECON 100B":["ECON","Intermediate Economic II","Determinants of supply and demand; operation of competitive and monopolistic markets; imperfections of the market system, explanations of unemployment, inflation, recessions; public policy for macroeconomic problems.","ECON 100A"],"ECON 100C":["ECON","Intermediate Economics III","Determinants of supply and demand; operation of competitive and monopolistic markets; imperfections of the market system, explanations of unemployment, inflation, recessions; public policy for macroeconomic problems.","ECON 100B"],"ECON 105A":["ECON","Intermediate Quantitative Economics I ","An advanced and mathematical version of ECON 100A for students in the Quantitative Economics major.","ECON 20A and ECON 20B and MATH 2A and MATH 2B and MATH 3A"],"ECON 105B":["ECON","Intermediate Quantitative Economics II ","An advanced and mathematical version of ECON 100B for students in the Quantitative Economics major.","ECON 105A"],"ECON 105C":["ECON","Intermediate Quantitative Economics III ","An advanced and mathematical version of ECON 100C for students in the Quantitative Economics major.","ECON 105B"],"ECON 107":["ECON","Economics of Asymmetric Information","Focuses on the effects of asymmetric information in the markets for traditional economic goods and resources, such as labor, insurance, used cars, credit, and in auctions and bargaining problems. Prerequisite:.",""],"ECON 109":["ECON","Special Topics in Economic Theory","Studies in selected areas of Economics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 115":["ECON","Behaviorial Economics","Studies the behavioral and psychological biases in economics settings. Both individual decisions and games are discussed.","ECON 20A and ECON 20B"],"ECON 116A":["ECON","Game Theory I","Extensive form games with perfect information, and coalitional games. The key solution concepts are Nash Equilibrium, Backward Induction, and the Core. Substantive examples include public good production, oligopoly, electoral competition, auctions, holdup, market entry, and voting.","(ECON 15B or STAT 120B) and (ECON 100A or ECON 105A)"],"ECON 116B":["ECON","Game Theory II","Two-quarter sequence on game theory. Bayesian games, extensive form games with imperfect information, zero-sum games.","ECON 116A"],"ECON 122A":["ECON","Applied Econometrics I","Introduction to econometrics emphasizing practical applications in microeconomics and macroeconomics.","r corequisite: ECON 100A or ECON 105A and (ECON 15B or MATH 130B or MATH 133A or STAT 120C)"],"ECON 122B":["ECON","Applied Econometrics II","Introduction to econometrics emphasizing practical applications in microeconomics and macroeconomics.","ECON 122A"],"ECON 122CW":["ECON","Data Analysis Writing","Research writing course in econometrics focusing on individual research projects. Students employ econometric analysis to address an economic question in a 20-page paper and present their findings to the class in a short presentation.","ECON 15A and ECON 15B and ECON 122A and ECON 122B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 123A":["ECON","Econometrics I","Specification, estimation, and testing of econometric models. Applications in various areas of microeconomics and macroeconomics.","MATH 2A and MATH 2B and MATH 3A and (STAT 120C or MATH 130C) and (ECON 100A and ECON 100B and ECON 100C) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B and ECON 105C)"],"ECON 123B":["ECON","Econometrics II","Specification, estimation, and testing of econometric models. Applications in various areas of microeconomics and macroeconomics.","ECON 123A"],"ECON 123CW":["ECON","Econometrics III","Seminar course in which students do an original econometric research project.","ECON 123B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 125":["ECON","Business Forecasting","Students learn how to produce forecasts of the behavior of economic (and other) variables. The techniques examined are linear regression, nonlinear regression, and nonparametric kernel regression; AR, MA, ARMA, ARIMA, and Box-Jenkins.","ECON 122A"],"ECON 126":["ECON","Computational Macroeconomics","Introduction to the computational methods for studying economic growth and the business cycle. Students learn how to write computer programs to simulate macroeconomic models, download and manage data from internet resources, and to do basic statistics.","r corequisite: (ECON 100C or ECON 105C) and (ECON 122A or ECON 123A)"],"ECON 127A":["ECON","Experimental Economics ","Students will learn what constitutes proper experimental design and what laboratory experiments teach us about human behavior and the economy. Students will participate in a sample experiment, evaluate the results, and discuss experiment design and larger issues. Formerly ECON 117.","ECON 15B and ECON 100B"],"ECON 128":["ECON","Machine Learning for Economists","Develops the theory and computation of recent methods at the intersection of econometrics and machine learning as used in economics and business. Building on intermediate econometrics, it introduces causal random forests, double machine learning, and neural networks.","ECON 123A"],"ECON 129":["ECON","Special Topics in Quantitative Methods","Studies in selected areas of Quantitative Methods. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 131A":["ECON","The Economics of Risk and Uncertainty","The theory of insurance and joint-ownership of risky enterprises; optimal procedures for the allocation of uncertain payoffs.","(ECON 15B or MATH 130B or STAT 120B) and (ECON 100B or ECON 105B)"],"ECON 132A":["ECON","Introduction to Financial Investments","Modern theories of investment and their application to the study of financial markets. The relation between risk and return, diversification, asset pricing, efficient markets hypothesis, and the market valuation of stocks, bonds, options, and futures.","r corequisite: ECON 15A and ECON 15B and (ECON 122A or ECON 123A) and (ECON 100A and ECON 100B and ECON 100C) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B and ECON 105C) or (MATH 130A and STAT 120A and STAT 120B and STAT 120C) or MATH 130B or MATH 133A"],"ECON 133":["ECON","Markets and Networks","Introduction into network effects in economic settings, such as auctions, markets, and bargaining. Networks are also important in information diffusion, aggregation, and search. Some applications refer to traffic and epidemics.","ECON 100A or ECON 105A"],"ECON 134A":["ECON","Corporate Finance","Provides an overview of the modern theory and practice of corporate finance and focuses on two fundamental financial decisions; investment as well as financing. Beginning with discounted cash flow analysis, basic theory will be applied to the valuation of stocks.","(ECON 100A and ECON 100B and ECON 100C) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B and ECON 105C) and (ECON 15A or MATH 130A or STAT 120A) and (ECON 15B or MATH 130B or STAT 120B)"],"ECON 134B":["ECON","Corporate Finance II","Advanced material in corporate finance. How to value companies, debt and equity financing, capital structure, IPOs, venture capital, private equity, and mergers and acquisitions. Applies knowledge through cases and real-life examples.","ECON 134A or MGMT 109"],"ECON 135":["ECON","Mathematics of Finance","After reviewing tools from probability, statistics, and elementary differential and partial differential equations, concepts such as hedging, arbitrage, Puts, Calls, the design of portfolios, the derivation and solution of the Blac-Scholes, and other equations are discussed.","MATH 3A or MATH H3A"],"ECON 137W":["ECON","Financial Markets and the Macroeconomy","Students are required to write a paper on a research question related to.","ECON 122A or ECON 123A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 139":["ECON","Special Topics in Financial Economics","Studies in selected areas of Financial Economics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 140":["ECON","Managerial Economics","A collection of concepts and methods for effective decision making. Explores how the tools of microeconomics, including game theory and industrial organization theory, can be used to make better managerial decisions, particularly those involving allocation of resources within firms.","(ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 140E":["ECON","Health Economics","Builds off of economic theory to explore topics in health economics including health care demand, health insurance markets, the supply of health care, and examine health care policy.","(ECON 122A or ECON 123A) and (ECON 100B or ECON 105B)"],"ECON 141A":["ECON","Public Economics I","Examines the role of the government in the economy and its impact on individuals and firms.","(ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 141B":["ECON","Public Economics II","Theory of public goods, externalities, voting models, analysis of bureaucracy, the Tiebout model, income redistribution, intergovernmental grants.","(ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 142A":["ECON","Industrial Organization I","The theory of market structure. Imperfect markets, government policies, and industry performance.","(ECON 15A and ECON 15B) and (ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 142CW":["ECON","Industrial Organization III","Research in industrial organization. Imperfect competition, antitrust, and regulation.","(ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 143":["ECON","Energy Economics","The economics of markets for oil, natural gas, electricity, and renewable energy, and their interactions with each other and the rest of the economy. Effects of government intervention, policy measures, economic policy issues arising between energy use and the environment.","ECON 15A and (ECON 100A or ECON 105A)"],"ECON 144A":["ECON","Urban Economics I","Why cities exist, economics of urban land-use, housing demand and tenure choice, traffic congestion.","r corequisite: ECON 20A and ECON 20B. Recommended: ECON 100A."],"ECON 144B":["ECON","Urban Economics II","Housing policy analysis, urban public goods and services, crime, pollution, urban amenities.","ECON 20A and ECON 20B. Recommended: ECON 100A."],"ECON 145E":["ECON","Economics of the Environment","Surveys economic aspects of natural resources, pollution, population, and the environment. Examines the causes of pollution; analysis of public policies regarding these problems. Emphasis on microeconomic aspects of environmental problems.","ECON 100A or ECON 105A"],"ECON 145FW":["ECON","Economics of the Environment II","Applications of tools covered in ECON 145E to topics in environmental economics. Emphasis on independent research papers. Syllabus and classes include writing technique and use cutting-edge research papers as a base for developing effective reading, writing, and research skills.","(ECON 15A or STAT 120A) and (ECON 15B or STAT 120B) and (ECON 122A or ECON 123A) and (ECON 100A or ECON 105A) and (ECON 100B or ECON 105B) and (ECON 100C or ECON 105C). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 145L":["ECON","Economics of Law","Examination of several economic concepts which are useful in understanding legal rules: externalities, the assignment of property rights, and Coase's theorem. Examples are drawn from the fields of pollution control, no-fault insurance, medical malpractice, and product liability.","r corequisite: (ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 146A":["ECON","Illegal Economics","How illegal firms function in illegal markets, why individuals participate in these groups and markets, and what federal, state, and local governments do to disrupt organized illegal activity.",""],"ECON 146B":["ECON","Economics of Criminal Justice","Provides an introduction to the economics of crime literature.","ECON 122A or ECON 123A"],"ECON 146D":["ECON","Conflict and Economics","Applies the tools of economics to study the causes and consequences of violent conflict (e.g., wars between nations, civil wars, and crime) and more refined forms of conflict (e.g., lobbying and litigation).","(ECON 100A or ECON 105A) and (ECON 100B or ECON 105B)"],"ECON 147A":["ECON","Corporate Governance","Studies topics in the internal organization of firms, including rent seeking, incentive contracts, principal-agent problems, internal labor markets, contests, and herd behavior.","ECON 100A"],"ECON 147B":["ECON","Economics of Strategy","Uses tools of economics, game theory in particular, to develop an understanding of business decision-making. Deals with questions such as how the firm decides what kind of business to be in, how large should it be, and others.","(ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 148":["ECON","Business Decisions","Surveys normative and descriptive models of decision-making behavior, with an emphasis on organizational and policy contexts. Topics include rational choice theory, biases and heuristics, framing effects, and overconfidence. Management fads, panics, and herd behavior are also discussed.","(ANTH 10A and ANTH 10B and ANTH 10C) or (SOCL 10A and SOCL 10B and SOCL 10C) or (SSCI 10A and SSCI 10B and SSCI 10C) or (MATH 2A and MATH 2B and (STAT 7 or MGMT 7)) or (STAT 120A and STAT 120B and STAT 120C) or (ECON 15A and ECON 15B)"],"ECON 149":["ECON","Special Topics in Economics of Public and Private Organizations","Studies in selected areas of Economics of Public and Private Organizations. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ECON 149W":["ECON","Special Topics in Economics of Public and Private Organizations","Studies in selected areas of Economics of Public and Private Organizations. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 151A":["ECON","Labor Economics and Human Resources I","Labor demand, labor supply, human capital, personnel economics, and other topics.","(ECON 15A and ECON 15B) and (ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B)"],"ECON 152A":["ECON","Economic Anthropology","Economic systems in comparative perspective: production, distribution, and consumption in market and non-market societies; agricultural development in the third world.","One course in general science, anthropology, economics, geography, or sociology."],"ECON 153W":["ECON","Political Institutions, Legal Systems, and Economic Development","Studies a variety of empirical papers analyzing how institutions affect economic development. The topics include cross-country studies of institutions as well as narrower topics such as corruption, regulation of entry, political connections, and pork barrel politics.","ECON 15A and ECON 15B and ECON 100A and ECON 100B and ECON 100C and ECON 122A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 154":["ECON","Voting and Political Manipulation","Introduction to social choice and cooperative games. Topics include majority rule, types of voting methods, apportionment and proportional representation, agenda manipulation, coalition formation, voting power, political consequences of electoral laws.",""],"ECON 155":["ECON","Current Issues in Political Economy","Political economy seeks explanations that combine insights from both economics and politics. Topics include the interaction of government and markets, the causes of the Great Recession, and the sources of income and wealth inequality.","ECON 20A or ECON 20B or ECON 13 or IS 13"],"ECON 157":["ECON","Economic Development","Considers the process of economic development across the globe and why some countries are rich and others poor. Discusses the major problems facing developing countries, such as population growth, education, capital formation, environmental protection, and international trade.","ECON 20A and ECON 20B"],"ECON 158":["ECON","Economics of Education","Arms students with tools, concepts, and evidence that can be used to analyze complex policy questions in education, enabling students to arrive at their own reasoned judgments about how to improve education.","ECON 15A and ECON 100A"],"ECON 161A":["ECON","Money and Banking","Basic elements of money and banking: institutional features and economics of financial markets and, in particular, the U.S. banking system; determinants of interest rates; the Federal Reserve and its role in money supply; effects of money on output and inflation.","r corequisite: (ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B) and (ECON 100C or ECON 105C)"],"ECON 161B":["ECON","International Money","Open economy macroeconomics and determination of exchange rates. Asset-market approach to the balance of payments. Internal and external balance in the economy. Macroeconomic policies under fixed and floating exchange rates. The international monetary system and institutions.","r corequisite: (ECON 100A and ECON 100B) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B) and (ECON 100C or ECON 105C)"],"ECON 161D":["ECON","Advanced Money and Banking","Studies business cycles in the United States during the last century. The first portion of the course reviews the theoretical models employed to study economic fluctuations and empirical methods used to measure fluctuations.","ECON 161A and (ECON 100C or ECON 105C)"],"ECON 162":["ECON","Poverty, Growth, and Development","Examines India as a case study for each of the topics studied: growth experience of India along with its poverty eradication record, aspects of poverty, and the policies that have been undertaken to tackle poverty.","(ECON 15A or STAT 120A) and (ECON 15B or STAT 120B) and (ECON 100A and ECON 100B and ECON 100C) or (ECON 105A and ECON 105B and ECON 105C)"],"ECON 164AW":["ECON","The Industrial Revolution in Western Europe","How do economists explain the process of economic development during the past three centuries? Has the process of industrialization affected living standards? Focusing on these questions, students learn how to apply economic theory and quantitative methods.","r corequisite: ECON 100C or ECON 105C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 164C":["ECON","American Economic History from Colonization to the Present","Examines how the American economy evolved from colonization to the post-war era. Topics include relations with foreign countries, the emergence of manufacturing and big business, railroads, slavery, war, the Great Depression, the rise of fiscal and monetary policies.","ECON 20A and ECON 20B"],"ECON 165":["ECON","Economics of International Business ","Students learn to understand and analyze the principal economic issues in the international business arena. Covers topics such as trade theory, foreign direct investment, foreign exchange market, and strategy of international business.","r corequisite: ECON 100C or ECON 105C"],"ECON 166":["ECON","Development Economics","Uses theory and empirics to understand the economies of low- and middle-income countries. Explores the concept, determinants, and consequences of economic growth, drawing on historical and cross-country evidence. Topics include poverty, inequality, agriculture, demography, and strategies of risk management.","(ECON 15A or STAT 120A) and (ECON 15B or STAT 120B) and (ECON 122A or ECON 123A) and (ECON 100A or ECON 105A) and (ECON 100B or ECON 105B) and (ECON 100C or ECON 105C)"],"ECON 167":["ECON","International Trade and Commercial Policy","Determination of trade flows and the relative prices. Gains from trade, the terms of trade, and income distribution. Imperfect competition and international trade. The effect of tariffs, export subsidies, and import quotas. The effects of free and restricted trade.","ECON 100A or ECON 105A"],"ECON 169":["ECON","Special Topics in Development Economics","Studies in selected areas of Development Economics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 190":["ECON","Senior Thesis","Students work with faculty to complete their honors thesis.",""],"ECON 190BW":["ECON","Economics Honors Colloquium II","Colloquium required for honors students in Economics, Quantitative Economics, and Business Economics. Introduces students to independent research and helps students plan a research program. Students complete their thesis.","ECON H190A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON H190A":["ECON","Economics Honors Colloquium I","Colloquium required for honors students in economics, quantitative economics, and business economics. Introduces students to independent research. Helps students plan a research program. Prepares students for thesis writing.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ECON 197":["ECON","Field Study","Not listed in Catalogue.",""],"ECON 198":["ECON","Directed Group Study","Not listed in Catalogue.",""],"ECON 199":["ECON","Independent Study","Independent research with Economics faculty.",""],"ECON 200A":["ECON","Graduate Colloquium for Economics I","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors. Supplemented by class discussion of these presentations and other material on current research methodology.",""],"ECON 200B":["ECON","Graduate Colloquium for Economics II","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors. Supplemented by class discussion of these presentations and other material on current research methodology.","ECON 200A"],"ECON 200C":["ECON","Graduate Colloquium for Economics III","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors. Supplemented by class discussion of these presentations and other material on current research methodology.","ECON 200B"],"ECON 203A":["ECON","Mathematics for Economists","Gives students the mathematical background required for graduate work in economics. Topics covered include multivariate calculus, differential equations, and linear algebra.",""],"ECON 210A":["ECON","Microeconomic Theory I","Theoretical microeconomics. Emphasis on the meaning and empirical interpretation of theoretical models. Topics include theory of the firm, theory of the market, theory of the consumer, duality theory, application to econometrics, general equilibrium and welfare economics, uncertainty, game theory.",""],"ECON 210B":["ECON","Microeconomic Theory II","Theoretical microeconomics. Emphasis on the meaning and empirical interpretation of theoretical models. Topics include theory of the firm, theory of the market, theory of the consumer, duality theory, application to econometrics, general equilibrium and welfare economics, uncertainty, game theory.","ECON 210A"],"ECON 210C":["ECON","Microeconomic Theory III","Theoretical microeconomics. Emphasis on the meaning and empirical interpretation of theoretical models. Topics include theory of the firm, theory of the market, theory of the consumer, duality theory, application to econometrics, general equilibrium and welfare economics, uncertainty, game theory.","ECON 210B"],"ECON 210D":["ECON","Macroeconomic Theory I","Advanced macroeconomic theory including alternative macroeconomic models, microeconomic foundations of macroeconomics, investment and growth theory, inflation and unemployment, rational expectations and macroeconomic policy, wealth effects, crowding out and fiscal policy, money and interest, open economy models.",""],"ECON 210E":["ECON","Macroeconomic Theory II","Advanced macroeconomic theory including alternative macroeconomic models, microeconomic foundations of macroeconomics, investment and growth theory, inflation and unemployment, rational expectations and macroeconomic policy, wealth effects, crowding out and fiscal policy, money and interest, open economy models.","ECON 210D"],"ECON 210F":["ECON","Macroeconomic Theory III","Advanced macroeconomic theory including alternative macroeconomic models, microeconomic foundations of macroeconomics, investment and growth theory, inflation and unemployment, rational expectations and macroeconomic policy, wealth effects, crowding out and fiscal policy, money and interest, open economy models.","ECON 210E"],"ECON 211L":["ECON","Macroeconomics Theory II Lab","Overview of stochastic processes; introduction to dynamic programming; two equilibrium concepts; Ricardian equivalence; real business cycle model; complete versus incomplete markets; asset pricing and the equity premium puzzle.",""],"ECON 219":["ECON","Special Topics in Economic Theory","Studies in selected areas of Economic Theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 220A":["ECON","Statistics and Econometrics I","Takes up where ECON 202 leaves off. Continuing in the likelihood perspective, begins with Bayesian point estimation and then covers interval estimation and hypothesis testing from both frequentist and Bayesian perspectives.",""],"ECON 220B":["ECON","Statistics and Econometrics II","Begins by relaxing the ideal conditions of the standard regression model. Potential topics include kernel density estimation, instrumental variables (IV), two stage least squares (2SLS), panel data models, and simulation-based Bayesian methods, including Gibbs sampling, and the bootstrap.","ECON 220A"],"ECON 220C":["ECON","Statistics and Econometrics III","Covers econometric time series, discrete choice and count models, sample selection, and duration models along with Bayesian and classical asymptotic methods.","ECON 220B"],"ECON 221A":["ECON","Statistics and Econometrics Laboratory I","Discussion of problems in statistics and econometrics, and their relationships to statistical and econometrics theory. Instruction in the use of computers for applied econometric work.",""],"ECON 221B":["ECON","Statistics and Econometrics Laboratory II","Discussion of problems in statistics and econometrics, and their relationships to statistical and econometrics theory. Instruction in the use of computers for applied econometric work.",""],"ECON 221C":["ECON","Statistics and Econometrics Laboratory III","Discussion of problems in statistics and econometrics, and their relationships to statistical and econometrics theory. Instruction in the use of computers for applied econometric work.",""],"ECON 223A":["ECON","Discrete Choice Econometrics","Specification, estimation, and testing of discrete choice models, with emphasis on cross-sectional and panel data models and applications. Students use computer packages to apply models and techniques to real data.","ECON 220A and ECON 220B and ECON 220C"],"ECON 224A":["ECON","Time Series Econometrics","Econometric analysis of time series data. Moving average and autoregressive series, regression analysis, Box-Jenkins techniques, computational methods, and causality conditions.","ECON 220A and ECON 220B and ECON 220C"],"ECON 227A":["ECON","Experimental Econ I   ","An introduction to experimental social science. Students learn experimental methodology, design, and analysis, and be exposed to active research areas. Each student writes a proposal for their own experiment and presents the design in class.",""],"ECON 227B":["ECON","Experimental Econ II","Focuses on implementing experimental projects in a laboratory environment. Subjects learn about human subjects protection, program experimental software for their own projects, and conduct live experiment sessions.",""],"ECON 229":["ECON","Special Topics in Econometrics","Studies in selected areas of Econometrics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 232":["ECON","Business Cycles in Historical Perspective","Investigates business cycles in the United States and worldwide during the last two centuries. Topics include causes and consequences of business fluctuations, monetary and fiscal policy, models of fluctuations, and empirical macroeconomics.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C and ECON 210D and ECON 210E and ECON 210F"],"ECON 234":["ECON","American Economic History","Focuses on American economic history from colonization onwards. Topics include the development of legal systems, transport systems, financial markets, industrialization, migration, immigration, technological change, and the consequences of slavery.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C and ECON 210D and ECON 210E and ECON 210F"],"ECON 235":["ECON","Health and Development in Historical Perspective","Investigates the evolution of population health over time and across the development process. Examines how the environment, nutrition, public health systems, and medical innovations have influenced health and demographic behavior. Also explores the interplay between health capital and economic growth.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C and ECON 220A and ECON 220B"],"ECON 239":["ECON","Special Topics in Financial Economics","Studies in selected areas of Financial Economics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 241A":["ECON","Industrial Organization I","Analysis of the structure and economic performance of markets, and the impact of public policy and their efficiency and equity. Effects of information structure. Oligopoly, cartels, mergers, vertical integration, patents, innovation, antitrust, and regulation.","ECON 100B and ECON 203A"],"ECON 241B":["ECON","Industrial Organization II","Analysis of the structure and economic performance of markets, and the impact of public policy and their efficiency and equity. Effects of information structure. Price flexibility and dispersion, auctions, search and industrial structure, intrafirm organization.","ECON 241A and ECON 100B and ECON 203A"],"ECON 242":["ECON","Development Economics","Uses theory and empirics to understand the economies of low- and middle-income countries. Explores the concept, determinants, and consequences of economic growth, drawing on historical and cross-country evidence. Topics include poverty, inequality, agriculture, demography, and strategies of risk management.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C and ECON 220A and ECON 220B"],"ECON 243A":["ECON","Game Theory","A formal introduction to non-cooperative game theory. Topics include properties of Nash Equilibrium and equilibrium refinements, games with imperfect information, and games with incomplete information.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C"],"ECON 243B":["ECON","Advanced Game Theory","Provides advanced instruction in game theory. The topics covered will be (i) the theory of repeated games and (ii) evolutionary game theory. Applications include bargaining, collusion, reputation, social norms, and the evolution of preferences via natural selection and cultural transmission.","ECON 243A"],"ECON 245":["ECON","Empirical Methods in Applied Microeconomics","Focuses on the empirical methods used in modern applied microeconomics. Teaches methods that can be applied to produce original research in applied fields using cross-sectional and panel data. Applications will be drawn heavily from labor, public, health and development economics.",""],"ECON 249":["ECON","Special Topics in Microeconomics","Studies in selected areas of Microeconomics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 251A":["ECON","Labor Economics I   ","Analysis of the relationships between education and the labor market (human capital theory), between resources devoted to education and the return to education (the education production function) and between education and labor market inequality (the theory of skill-biased technical change).","ECON 203A"],"ECON 251B":["ECON","Labor Economics II","Analysis of core topics in labor economics, with an emphasis on empirical methods.  Topics may include minimum wages, discrimination, gender, aging and retirement, labor market networks, personnel economics, and employment policy.","ECON 203A"],"ECON 255":["ECON","Microeconomics and Public Policy","Introduces the fundamental principles of microeconomics that are required for applied policy analysis. Provides students with an intuitive understanding of the microeconomic approach, and familiarizes them with concepts used in applied public policy analysis.",""],"ECON 259":["ECON","Special Topics in Labor Economics","Studies in selected areas of Labor Economics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 260B":["ECON","Monetary Economics II","Surveys recent issues on monetary policy in uncertain environments. Examines settings where both the policy makers and the private sector are uncertain of future outcomes or the underlying economic structure.",""],"ECON 261A":["ECON","International Trade I","Covers theoretical models, empirical methods, and policy issues in international trade. Following the conventional treatment of the Richardian model, the Heckscher-Ohlin model and the specific factors model, new trade models which incorporate scale economics and imperfect competition will be discussed.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B"],"ECON 263A":["ECON","Advanced Macroeconomics I","Students build Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (DSGE) macroeconomic models from microeconomic foundations. This approach emphasizes intertemporal optimization by firms and households and typically incorporates nominal rigidities such as sluggish price and\/or wage adjustment.",""],"ECON 269":["ECON","Special Topics in Macroeconomics","Studies in selected areas of Macroeconomics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 270A":["ECON","Political Economy I","Political Economy lies at the intersection of economics and political science. Studies effects of politics on the economy and uses tools derived from economics to understand the behavior of governments and of citizens when they deal with politics.",""],"ECON 270B":["ECON","Political Economy II","Political Economy lies at the intersection of economics and political science. Studies effects of politics on the economy and uses tools derived from economics to understand the behavior of governments and of citizens when they deal with politics.","ECON 270A"],"ECON 270C":["ECON","Political Economy III","Political Economy lies at the intersection of economics and political science. Studies effects of politics on the economy and uses tools derived from economics to understand the behavior of governments and of citizens when they deal with politics.","ECON 270B"],"ECON 271":["ECON","Economics of Criminal Justice","Considers empirical research from the economics literature on various topics related to the criminal justice system, such as policing, bail reform, incarceration, or recidivism.",""],"ECON 272A":["ECON","Public Economics I","Covers welfare economics, the theory of optimal taxation, tax incidence, and empirical methods in tax policy. Empirical topics include tax evasion, measurement of incidence, efficiency costs, and other policy issues.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C"],"ECON 272B":["ECON","Public Economics II","Covers the theory of public goods and models of decentralized provision of such goods, including voluntary provision, voting, bureaucratic provision, and preference revelation mechanisms, as well as the Tiebout model. Also covers externalities, cost-benefit analysis, and intergovernmental competition.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C"],"ECON 272C":["ECON","Public Economics III","Covers the rationale for and effects of government intervention in insurance markets and for redistribution. Includes theoretical and empirical analyses of cash and in-kind assistance programs, unemployment insurance, disability insurance, Social Security, and other programs.","ECON 210A and ECON 210B and ECON 210C"],"ECON 275":["ECON","Economics of Government","Prepares students to analyze public policy questions with tools from economics. By the end, students should be able to identify important economic issues in public policy debates and consume and critique economic research on these topics.",""],"ECON 279":["ECON","Special Topics in Political Economy","Studies in selected areas of Political Economy. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ECON 281A":["ECON","Urban Economics I","Economic reasons for the existence of cities, analysis of urban spatial structure, urban sprawl, Third World urbanization, hedonic price analysis, housing tenure choice.","ECON 210A"],"ECON 281B":["ECON","Urban Economics II","Housing in the portfolio, land-use controls, rent control, homelessness, neighborhood effects, urban quality-of-life measurement, and subcenters.","ECON 210A"],"ECON 282B":["ECON","Transportation Economics II","Economics of the airline industry. Hub-and-spoke networks, the effects of competition on airfares, price dispersion, airline alliances, airport congestion, product unbundling.","ECON 282A"],"ECON 290":["ECON","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Economics faculty.",""],"ECON 299":["ECON","Independent Study","Independent research with Economics faculty.",""],"EDUC 10":["EDUC","Educational Research Design","Designed to help students become intelligent consumers of research and independent researchers, and provides an introduction to the basic principles of educational research. Topics include research questions, literature reviews, and qualitative and quantitative research designs.",""],"EDUC 15":["EDUC","Statistics for Education Research ","Provides an introduction to the use of statistics in educational research. Focuses on testing and measurement, and provides basic tools to read, interpret, and draw conclusions from quantitative educational research.","EDUC 10 or SE 10"],"EDUC 25":["EDUC","Introduction to Education: Disciplinary Perspectives","Provides insights into educational organizations and processes by developing understanding of concepts used by four different disciplines (economics, history, psychology, and sociology) to analyze key issues and phenomenon in the field of education that profoundly influence individual life course outcomes.",""],"EDUC 30":["EDUC","21st Century Literacies","Provides an overview of literacies required for academic and career success in the 21st century. Issues addressed include reading, writing, academic language, research skills, media and technology skills, scientific literacy, critical thinking, communication, collaboration, and creativity.",""],"EDUC 40":["EDUC"," Theories of Development and Learning Applied to Education","Provides an introductory examination of central theories of human development and learning in their application to contemporary educational settings.",""],"EDUC 50":["EDUC","Origins, Purposes, and Central Issues in K-12 Education","An introduction to the role of education in U.S. society and to central issues in K-12 education. Education is studied from four different perspectives: social, historical, philosophical, and political.",""],"EDUC 52":["EDUC","Foundations of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism","Provides a comprehensive overview of current issues in bilingual education and bilingualism. Topics include dimensions of bilingualism, the effects of bilingualism on children's linguistic and cognitive development, bilingual education programs, literacy, special needs, and assessment.",""],"EDUC 55":["EDUC","Knowing and Learning in Mathematics and Science","Multidisciplinary study of knowing and learning in secondary school mathematics and science. Topics include standards for knowing, scientific epistemologies, mental representations, problem solving, expert-novice studies, assessment, and domain-specific thinking, learning, and teaching. Applied analysis of learning through clinical interviews.","PS 5 or BIOL 14"],"EDUC 80":["EDUC","Interdisciplinary Topics in Education","Analysis of issues in education from interdisciplinary perspectives. Topics covered vary with interests of instructor.",""],"EDUC 100":["EDUC","Educational Strategies for Tutoring and Teacher Aiding","Placement in a public elementary or secondary school to gain experience as a tutor or teacher aide. Emphasis on cognitive learning and the development of instructional strategies and resources which can be used in effective cross-age and cross-cultural experiences.",""],"EDUC 101":["EDUC","Strategies for Tutoring and Teacher Aiding in a Bilingual Classroom","Placement in a dual immersion school setting to gain experience as a bilingual (Spanish) tutor or teacher aide. Emphasis on cognitive learning and the development of instructional strategies and resources which can be used in effective cross-age and cross-cultural experiences.","Must be able to communicate in Spanish."],"EDUC 104D":["EDUC","The Arts and Human Development","Students use various arts disciplines (e.g. studio art, music, dance, drama, and media arts) to investigate how visual and performing arts support individual human development. Introduction to pedagogy for integrating the arts in K-12 settings. Materials fee.",""],"EDUC 104E":["EDUC","Multimedia and the Arts in the Multicultural Classroom","Multiculturalism and under-represented U.S. minorities and the visual and performing arts: perspectives in artistic perception, creative expression, historical and cultural context, aesthetic valuing, and media literacy in the interpretation and production of multimedia arts products and applications for K-12 classrooms.",""],"EDUC 106":["EDUC","Early Childhood Education Curriculum and Instruction","Designed to provide an introductory survey of the nature, needs, and education of young children. Explores questions such as \"What should we teach young children?\" and \"How should we teach?\".",""],"EDUC 107":["EDUC","Child Development in Education","Explores the pathways of normally developing children's growth and change over time. In particular, focuses on how cognitive and social development impact and are driven by educational contexts.",""],"EDUC 108":["EDUC","Adolescent Development and Education","Explores the physical, cognitive, emotional, and social development of adolescents, with an emphasis on the practical implications of developmental theory and research findings for teachers and other professionals who work with adolescents in middle or high school contexts.",""],"EDUC 109":["EDUC","Reading and Writing in Mathematics and Science","Emphasis is placed on understanding the literacy processes (listening, speaking, viewing, thinking, reading, and writing) as they relate to middle and high school mathematics and science. Students integrate literacy-related strategies with curriculum-based goals supported in the California State Frameworks.",""],"EDUC 120A":["EDUC","Introduction to Positive Psychology in Education","Positive psychology is a recent focus area within the field of psychology that explores what is positive, creative, and fulfilling in human behavior. It is the scientific study of well-being and flourishing.",""],"EDUC 120B":["EDUC","Applied Positive Psychology in Education","Covers select positive psychology topics, theories, and interventions at an advanced level. Students focus on developing an understanding of positive psychology evidence-based practices that can be applied in classrooms and schools to promote learning in an academic environment.","EDUC 120A or PSCI 192X or PSCI 184S"],"EDUC 122A":["EDUC","Foundations of Elementary Mathematics Learning I","Provides understanding of fundamental mathematics necessary to teach for conceptual understanding and higher-level reasoning and problem solving. Conceptual understanding of place value, fractions, proportionality, geometry, algebra, functions, probability, statistics, and measurement. Instructional applications of these concepts in grades K-8 teaching.",""],"EDUC 122B":["EDUC","Foundations of Elementary Mathematics Learning II","Provides understanding of fundamental mathematics necessary to teach for conceptual understanding and higher-level reasoning and problem solving. Conceptual understanding of place value, fractions, proportionality, geometry, algebra, functions, probability, statistics, and measurement. Instructional applications of these concepts in grades K-8 teaching.","EDUC 122A"],"EDUC 122C":["EDUC","Foundations of Elementary Mathematics Learning III","Provides understanding of fundamental mathematics necessary to teach for conceptual understanding and higher-level reasoning and problem solving. Conceptual understanding of place value, fractions, proportionality, geometry, algebra, functions, probability, statistics, and measurement. Instructional applications of these concepts in grades K-8 teaching.","EDUC 122B"],"EDUC 124":["EDUC","Multicultural Education in K-12 Schools","Provides a theoretical and empirical overview of educational issues affecting low-income immigrant and U.S. born minority student populations in an increasingly diverse and changing society.",""],"EDUC 125":["EDUC","Children, Schools, and Cinema","Through popular films, analyzes aspects of school dynamics and interaction of schools with students, teachers, and public.  Melding educational studies and film studies provides deeper understanding of methods used to transmit information and attitudes about schools to the lay public.",""],"EDUC 126":["EDUC","Ethics and Education","Ethics in education and how ethicists frame moral problems.  Presents major ethical themes that affect education.   Analysis of models for dealing with ethical goals and developing morality for K-12 students.  Models for solving ethical dilemmas within an educational context.","EDUC 50"],"EDUC 127A":["EDUC","Moral Education for Youth Development I","The first of a two-course series that examines research-based theories for how school settings and adult mentors contribute to the moral development of adolescents. Students examine theory in the context of real-world application in four program observations.","EDUC 126"],"EDUC 127B":["EDUC","Moral Education for Youth Development II","Continuation of EDUC 127A. Allows students from 127A to experience the role of adults in the moral development of youth. Students receive training to deliver curriculum and apply research-based theories and methods in real-world youth settings.","EDUC 126 and EDUC 127A"],"EDUC 128":["EDUC","Exceptional Learners","An introductory survey of the nature, needs, and education of K-12 children with exceptionalities. Covers the categories and characteristics of exceptionalities, relevant state and federal legislation, and the role of general education teachers in special education.",""],"EDUC 130":["EDUC","Children's Learning and Media","Examines how popular media may impact how young people learn, develop, and communicate by looking at research related to the impacts of a wide range of popular media including television, video games, digital environments, mobile devices, and other multimedia.",""],"EDUC 131":["EDUC","Educational Technology","Presents an overview of the types and uses of educational technology to support and enhance the K-12 learning experience. Familiarizes students with lesson planning, instructional design, learning theory, and integrating technology into the curriculum.",""],"EDUC 132":["EDUC","Reading and Writing Enrichment for After-School Programs","Examines literacy development and the implementation of research-based practices to enrich learners' reading and writing skills in after-school programs. A minimum of 20 hours of after-school program fieldwork is required in order to design and implement literacy enrichment activities.",""],"EDUC 134":["EDUC","Teaching English Internationally","Covers methods of teaching English as a foreign language, basic language knowledge for English teachers, the social context of English language teaching around the world, and essential information about securing international employment as an English teacher.",""],"EDUC 137":["EDUC","Arts for Elementary Learners","Theory and practice in art education for the elementary school classroom. Includes content and pedagogy for future teachers and others interested in the relationship between child development and the production of visual art. Materials fee.",""],"EDUC 138":["EDUC","Children's Literature in the Elementary Classroom","Explores the wealth of children's literature that can be integrated into the elementary classroom. Surveys traditional literature, fiction, nonfiction, and poetry that make curriculum accessible to all students. Focuses on literary elements for both reading and creating text.",""],"EDUC 140":["EDUC","Courts, Classrooms, and Controversies in Education Policy ","Examines policies and laws defining the K-12 U.S. education system and the politics and controversies surrounding the political decision-making process at the federal, state, and local levels. Discusses original intent versus effects on organization of schools and educational equity.",""],"EDUC 142":["EDUC","American History and Education Policy: An Intimate Relationship","Examines the interplay between history, politics, and policy. Students examine the interactions between sociopolitical development and environmental contexts (e.g. familial, social, school, cultural) and contemplate the power of normative values in the formulation of education policy.",""],"EDUC 143":["EDUC","Controversies in College","Explores the fascinating world of postsecondary education. Every week students dive deeper into controversies that make college more than just where students attend class, but rather, one of the most important social institutions shaping our world.",""],"EDUC 143AW":["EDUC","Classroom Interactions I","Focuses on research-based instructional strategies for enhancing the learning of secondary mathematics and science. Students learn about adolescent and second-language development to assist them in developing analyzing, teaching, and critiquing lessons for secondary classrooms.","(PS 105 or BIOL 101) and EDUC 55. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EDUC 143BW":["EDUC","Classroom Interactions II","Focuses on equity and multicultural education research, special education, and research-based instructional and assessment strategies to assist students in designing, teaching, and assessing lessons that meet the needs of all secondary mathematics and science students.","(PS 105 or BIOL 101) and EDUC 55 and EDUC 143AW and EDUC 148. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EDUC 144":["EDUC","The American Charter School","Explores the legitimacy of the charter school as a viable educational reform movement. Critical themes include the role of choice and privatization in public education and charter schools as a vehicle for fulfilling the promise of educational equality.",""],"EDUC 145":["EDUC","Theories and Pedagogies of Race in Education","Introduces theoretical frameworks to examine the role of race in American education. Emphasis is placed on introducing students to different race and ethnicity paradigms.",""],"EDUC 146":["EDUC","Education, Learning, and Culture","Exploration of learning and development through a cultural lens, drawing from a range of research traditions and disciplines to broaden understandings of theories that inform teaching and learning in formal and informal settings.",""],"EDUC 147":["EDUC","Poverty, Education, and Social Change","Explores how institutional and demographic changes in the U.S. have shaped disparities in education, the mechanisms through which poverty and social class influence families, and students, and promising programs and interventions to address inequity. Includes community service.",""],"EDUC 148":["EDUC","Complex Pedagogical Design","In this Cal Teach capstone course, students design lesson plans and complex instructional units, using approaches such as mathematics and science integration, problem-based instruction, project-based learning, technology, representations, scientific and mathematical analysis\/modeling, authentic assessment, contextualization, and designing equitable learning environments.","(PS 105 or BIOL 101) and EDUC 55 and EDUC 143AW"],"EDUC 149":["EDUC","Family, School, and Community in Early Childhood","Focuses on the many socializing aspects of young children's social worlds. Through the use of ecological perspectives, explores the role of families, schools, and communities on children's social development, especially in early childhood.",""],"EDUC 150":["EDUC","Changing the High School Experience","Analysis of problems in high school education (e.g., student disengagement and underachievement of disadvantaged) and proposals for changing curriculum, instruction, and school organization. Students suggest own reforms and analyze effective\/ineffective school practices.","Recommended: 1 unit of EDUC 199."],"EDUC 151":["EDUC","Language and Literacy","Addresses the linguistic principles and processes that underlie oral and written language proficiency. Emphasis is on how to use phonology, morphology, orthography, semantics, syntax, and pragmatics to support literacy and oral language development for K-12 students.",""],"EDUC 152":["EDUC","Theory and Practice of Reading Interventions for Students At-Risk for Reading Failure","Examines the research concerning reading failure in young children and interventions used to support them. Topics include reading development and reading intervention. Students critically evaluate the relation between their fieldwork experience and the research and evaluation literature.",""],"EDUC 154":["EDUC","Latino Families and Youth","Current issues in theory, methods, and research in U.S. Latino\/a youth and families are examined. An advanced level study, with a particular focus on history, theories, methods, research, and applied social issues.",""],"EDUC 156":["EDUC","Introduction to Field Methods in Education","Introduces students to methods for studying human behavior in context. It prepares students for conducting applied educational research, including designing needs assessments; conducting observations, interviews and focus groups; organizing and analyzing data; and synthesizing and presenting research findings.","EDUC 10"],"EDUC 157":["EDUC"," Educational Research and Evaluation","Covers qualitative and quantitative research methods relevant for the evaluation of educational programs. Students have the opportunity to plan, execute, and write-up a small evaluation project.","EDUC 10 and EDUC 15"],"EDUC 158":["EDUC","Student Teaching Mathematics and Science in Middle\/High School","Student teaching includes orientation, seminars, preparation, and assumption of secondary school classroom instructional responsibilities in accordance with State credentialing requirements and in conjunction with the public school calendar. Five days\/week and a minimum four hours\/day over two quarters.","(PS 105 or BIOL 101) and EDUC 55 and EDUC 143AW and EDUC 143BW and EDUC 148"],"EDUC 159":["EDUC","Experimental Research Methods","Designed to help students to develop the ability to think critically about research, and to develop an understanding of how to design and conduct experiments. The overall goal is to prepare students to independently plan and implement a research study.","EDUC 10 and EDUC 15"],"EDUC 160":["EDUC","Foundations of Out-of-School Learning","Provides an overview of child and adolescent learning through participation in out-of-school activities and settings. Recognizes the importance of matching out-of-school experiences with the interests, needs, and development level of students. Observation-based fieldwork included.",""],"EDUC 161":["EDUC","Discovering Science in Out-of-School Hours","Examines the design principles and teaching techniques that science museums and other out-of-school science programs use to motivate children and youth to learn science through discovery. Includes field experience at a science learning center or after-school program. Materials fee.",""],"EDUC 170":["EDUC","Chicanx\/Latinx Education","Provides a historical and empirical overview of educational issues affecting diverse Latinx low-income, immigrant, and U.S. born student populations enrolled in American schools. Examines policies and issues such as DACA, generation, culture, racism, and gender on educational mobility.",""],"EDUC 173":["EDUC","Cognition and Learning in Educational Settings","Exploration of historical foundations of cognitive psychology and cognitive development, cognitive neuroscience in education, complex cognition, individual differences, and cognitive foundations of learning.",""],"EDUC 174":["EDUC","Education and the American Dream: Historical Perspectives on Democracy and Education","Examines the relationship between public schooling and the promotion of democratic ideals in American society over the past two centuries.",""],"EDUC 175":["EDUC","Foundations of Education","Foundational questions of education are viewed from newly emerging developmental perspectives which treat cognition as embodied action and learning as cultural recapitulation. Historical, sociological, psychological, and philosophical implications of views toward aspects of teaching, learning, curriculum, and pedagogy are considered.",""],"EDUC 176":["EDUC","Psychology of Learning, Abilities, and Intelligence","Overview of classic positions on the mind, human abilities, and intelligence, especially as related to academic achievement. Contrasting views: psychometric versus information processing; experimental versus correlational research.","Recommended: PSYC 7A or PSCI 9 or PSCI 11A or PSCI 11B or PSCI 11C."],"EDUC 179W":["EDUC","Advanced Writing for Education Sciences","Writing for multiple audiences and purposes about central concepts in education sciences, such as schools as organizations; social structures in education and stratification; individual decision making, government regulation and markets; human development and learning.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EDUC 180":["EDUC","Interdisciplinary Topics in Education","Analysis of issues in education from interdisciplinary perspectives. Topics covered vary with interests of instructor.",""],"EDUC 181A":["EDUC","Principles and Practices of Coaching Sports I","Focuses on foundational theories and instructional practices in coaching sports from fourth grade to the collegiate level. Prepares students for the coach's mandatory state certification examination for high school sports in California.",""],"EDUC 185":["EDUC","Social Development in Education","Examination of contextual, psychosocial, and biological factors contributing to the social development of children and adolescents. Theoretical perspectives, empirical findings, and methodological issues are emphasized. Implications of the scientific evidence for practical and policy decision-making surrounding development are discussed.",""],"EDUC 190":["EDUC","Principles and Practices of K-6 After School Sports and Fitness","Focuses on foundational theories and instructional practices in after-school sports and fitness for K-6 students. Includes a 20-hour field experience in an after-school setting.",""],"EDUC 191":["EDUC","Advanced Fieldwork in After-School Education","Capstone fieldwork experience for students seeking to earn the Department of Education-sponsored Certificate in After-School Education. Students are required to complete 50 or more hours of fieldwork and related assignments at an instructor-approved after-school program.","EDUC 160"],"EDUC 193":["EDUC","Directed Studies in Early Childhood Education","Advanced study of early childhood education under the direction of a faculty member, coupled with a community-based practicum.",""],"EDUC 198":["EDUC","Directed Research in Education","Individually or in small groups, students are exposed to or participate in work related to a faculty member's research. Students also attend a weekly seminar and complete a research paper or comparable project.",""],"EDUC 199":["EDUC","Individual Study","Intensified advanced study in areas in which a student has considerable background, under the direction of a faculty member who will guide and evaluate the study.",""],"EDUC 202":["EDUC","Outcomes of Schooling\/Student Assessment","Focuses on establishment of learning goals and assessment tools that are valid for all students, inform educational decisions, and promote educational success. Provides critical examination of different forms of assessment used in K-12 schools, including developmental assessments and appropriate interventions.",""],"EDUC 206":["EDUC","Design of Learning Environments for Teachers in Secondary School Subjects","Research on comprehension, conceptual understanding, reasoning, critical thinking, and problem solving with applications to pedagogy in secondary school subjects. Required for M.A.T. single subject students, unless substitution of Education 207 is authorized.",""],"EDUC 208":["EDUC","Reading and Writing Development   ","Covers major theories and evidence about mechanisms and factors that contribute to development and difficulties with reading and writing skills. These include language, cognition, biological and environmental factors, bilingual and second language acquisition, and educational implications.",""],"EDUC 211":["EDUC","Writing Theory and Practice","Offers an overview of histories, theories, and research in the field of composition studies from 1950 to the present. Addresses the influences of theory and research on teaching practice at K-12 and college levels.",""],"EDUC 212":["EDUC","Literacy and Technology","Examines theoretical, historical, and contemporary relationships of technology and literacy. Topics include online communication, multimodality, video games, the use of technology for literacy instruction in schools, and research approaches for investigating literacy development with technology.",""],"EDUC 217":["EDUC","Foundations of Digital Learning","Students are introduced to historical, constructionist, instructionist, and new literacies perspectives through reading major works in educational technology and discussing how they apply to both teaching and research.",""],"EDUC 218":["EDUC","Special Topics in Teaching, Learning, and Educational Improvement","Advanced seminar designed to engage students in highly interactive examination of current issues in teaching and learning. Topics and content vary by quarter, depending upon research interests of the faculty and students.",""],"EDUC 220":["EDUC","Developing Adolescent Literacy","Examines how adolescents leverage vocabulary knowledge, word-reading skills, background understanding, and knowledge of content-specific text features to master an increasing range of texts both independently and for subject-area learning.",""],"EDUC 221":["EDUC","Longitudinal and Advanced Structural Equation Modeling","Covers advanced and longitudinal structural equation models. Topics include measurement invariance, growth curve models, measurement models, mixture models, and missing data.","Recommended: EDUC 288B."],"EDUC 222":["EDUC","Research Epistemologies and Methodologies","Introduction to epistemological underpinnings of educational research and to a range of research methodologies in education. Includes examination of quantitative and qualitative studies through reading and analyzing contemporary research. Critique of selected research studies pertinent to educational practice and policy.",""],"EDUC 223":["EDUC","Oral Language Acquisition and Education","Learn about research on domains of development in oral language (phonology, vocabulary, grammar, and extended discourse), bilingual development, and second language acquisition with attention to cognitive, biological, and environmental factors. Focus on learning in school settings and educational implications.",""],"EDUC 224":["EDUC","Special Topics in Educational Research Methods","An advanced seminar focused on innovative educational research methods and analytic techniques. Topics and content vary by quarter, depending upon the research interests of the faculty and students.",""],"EDUC 224A":["EDUC","Learning Analytics Fundamentals","Provides students with a survey of learning analytics (LA), emphasizing its application across educational contexts, rather than its underlying algorithmic details. A comprehensive overview orients students to this nascent field and prepares them for advanced research in LA.",""],"EDUC 224B":["EDUC","Learning Analytics Practicum","Helps students gain hands-on experience working as educational data scientists, while simultaneously learning some of the key guiding principles behind effectively using data to make predictions and decisions. Culminates in an interdisciplinary group research project.","EDUC 288A"],"EDUC 225":["EDUC","Learning, Development, and Culture","Explores issues of learning and development through a cultural lens. The interplay between culture and learning and culture and development is analyzed through the discussion of relevant readings from both psychological and anthropological research traditions.",""],"EDUC 226":["EDUC","University Teaching: Concepts and Practices","Prepares doctoral students for course design and instruction at the university level. Addresses topics including the university teaching context, preparing a syllabus, and inclusive teaching and learning.",""],"EDUC 228":["EDUC","Science Education for the 21st-Century Classroom","Aims to develop foundational understanding about science education research. Contemporary research from early childhood through high school is introduced. Issues of equity, social justice, pedagogy, professional development, and innovation in and out of school settings are addressed.",""],"EDUC 229A":["EDUC","Foundations of Human Development","Examines seminal concepts, issues, and theories that underlie contemporary developmental science. Students develop an understanding of these concepts, and develop their skills in using theory as a guide in their own research and practice.",""],"EDUC 230":["EDUC","The History and Culture of Schooling in the United States","Considers the historical, cultural, and structural processes that contextualize American schooling. In particular, examines the roles of race, class, and gender in the context of public education in the United States.",""],"EDUC 231":["EDUC","Interrogating Race and Education","Critically explores how race is a socially constructed concept and how it manifests itself in American society. Attention is given to African American, Asian, and Mexican communities throughout U.S. history, with particular emphasis on educational inequality.",""],"EDUC 232":["EDUC","Mathematics Cognition and Learning","Study of mathematical cognition, learning, and development. Combines readings from cognitive and developmental psychology, education, and learning sciences with the purpose of identifying the most useful applications of cognitive theory and methods for educational research and practice.",""],"EDUC 233A":["EDUC","Special Topics in Atypical Development","Includes advanced examination of current issues in theories of atypical development, assessment, and intervention as applied to special needs. Understanding physical and\/or cognitive mechanisms of child development and disorders. Knowledge and skills for areas of disability.",""],"EDUC 234":["EDUC","Measurement and Psychometrics","Focuses on appraisal and development of measures, measurement theory, and its application using a classical test theory approach. Topics include scaling, construction, reliability and validity assessment, and item analysis; as well as cross-cultural and cross-linguistic considerations in test development.",""],"EDUC 236":["EDUC","Applied Linguistics and Literacy","Examines research in applied linguistics as related to teaching literacy. Overview of language knowledge required to understand development and instruction of literacy.  Topics include English language structures, psychological processing of these structures, and methodologies to study language and literacy.",""],"EDUC 237":["EDUC","Foundations of Teaching and Learning","Situates learning in relation to teaching, content, and context. Locates the work of teaching and learning as a cultural practice and considers the limitations of existing theories for advancing learning opportunities for historically under-served and under-resourced communities.",""],"EDUC 238":["EDUC","Special Topics in Human Development in Context","An advanced seminar designed to engage students in highly interactive examination of current issues in human development. Topics and content vary by quarter, depending upon the research interests of the faculty and students.",""],"EDUC 239":["EDUC","Cognitive Neuroscience and Human Development","Focuses on the latest empirical work at the intersection of neuroscience, cognitive psychology, developmental science, and educational practice; explores how educational neuroscience fits within those fields; and discusses the main conceptual and practical challenges facing the field.",""],"EDUC 241":["EDUC","Children's Sense Making in Science","Investigates elementary students as individuals who construct understanding of concepts through their interactions with others and the world around them. Observations of children in informal settings to analyze learning in context.",""],"EDUC 243":["EDUC","The Policy Environment of Teaching","Examines research and public perceptions about school-based educational processes, the influence of institutional structures and educational policy on the lives of teachers, and the challenges of school reform at the local and classroom levels.",""],"EDUC 245":["EDUC","Learning Inside and Outside of School","A field-based course focused on observing adolescents in out-of-school contexts to examine adolescent learning and development in a range of contexts, how out-of-school contexts motivate learning and development, and consider the implications for teaching.",""],"EDUC 246":["EDUC","Teaching Investigations: Identifying Dilemmas of Practice","Focuses on identifying problems of teaching practice that arise in student teaching, examining the theoretical foundations that underlie problems of practice, and developing approaches for inquiring into strategies to systematically address instructional challenges.",""],"EDUC 247":["EDUC","Teaching Investigations: Exploring Dilemmas of Practice","Focuses on exploring problems of teaching practice that arise in student teaching, drawing on research to examine the theoretical foundations that underlie problems of practice, and to propose courses of action to address and study educational interventions.","EDUC 246"],"EDUC 248":["EDUC","Understanding Teacher Agency","Considers how teachers can become agents of change within their school contexts, through their participation in professional organizations and via social media. Candidates experiment with using different avenues for sharing images of practice and action research.","EDUC 246"],"EDUC 250":["EDUC","Research Practice Partnerships","An introduction to research-practice partnerships (RPPs). It examines the distinctive characteristics of this approach to education improvement by discussing examples of established partnerships and inviting students to become familiar with methods and tools to advance RPP work.",""],"EDUC 251":["EDUC","Educational Policy and Politics","An in-depth study of topics relevant to educational reform and policy-making. Topics include: the policy-making process, the role of values and interest groups, policy analysis, equality of educational opportunity, systemic reform, implementation, and politics at the school site.",""],"EDUC 252":["EDUC","Social Organization of Schools and Classrooms","Examines how schools are organizations with ambiguous goals, faced with challenges around effective leadership and cooperation, part of loosely coupled systems, and subject to coercive, normative, and mimemtic pressures from organizational environments, shaping institutional practices and structures.",""],"EDUC 253":["EDUC","Foundations of Educational Policy","Reviews disciplinary models that economists and sociologists employ in approaching education-related policy issues, including markets as emergent systems, human capital, social and cultural capital, and rational choice and institutional models of administrators and teachers.",""],"EDUC 254":["EDUC","College Access and Persistence","Introduction to how social, political, and economic forces impact college access and persistence in the U.S. higher education system. Investigates historical perspectives and theoretical underpinnings of college access and retention research and the link between K-12 schooling and postsecondary stratification.",""],"EDUC 255":["EDUC","Immigration and the New Second Generation","Focuses on Asian, Latino, and Black children of immigrants. Investigates how today's second generation adapts, incorporates into the U.S. social structure, transforms the social and economic landscape. Explores assimilation, immigrant families\/communities, language, racial\/ethnic identities, gender, education, changing U.S. racial structure.",""],"EDUC 258":["EDUC","Special Topics in Educational Policy and Social Context","An advanced seminar designed to engage students in highly interactive examination of current issues in educational policy and social context. Topics and content will vary by quarter, depending upon the research interests of the faculty and students.",""],"EDUC 259":["EDUC","Community Research and Action","Introduces the theoretical underpinnings and research approaches of the field of Community Psychology. Project-based course focused on research and action in communities, organizations, and other extra-individual units (e.g., schools).",""],"EDUC 260":["EDUC","The Arts, Human Development, and Social Context","Examines the state of empirical knowledge on the impact of visual and performing arts education on the development of academic, communication, and social-emotional skills. The role of the arts in forming personal and cultural identity is discussed.",""],"EDUC 261":["EDUC","Social and Cultural Foundations of Education","Provides a critical understanding of the social and cultural foundations of education through reproduction theory. Explores the unique ways in which culture and power intersect within schools and schooling systems to reproduce and resist educational inequality.",""],"EDUC 264":["EDUC","Economic Foundations of Education and Social Policy","Beginning\/intermediate microeconomics course provides students with an introduction to how economists think about household decision-making, markets, benefit-cost analysis, social policy issues in general and education policy in particular.",""],"EDUC 265":["EDUC","Applied Regression Analysis for Education and Social Scientific Research","Provides students with a working knowledge of multiple regression and the statistical analysis of longitudinal data. Topics include a review of the OLS regression model, event-history methods, and various other techniques for analyzing longitudinal data.","EDUC 288A. EDUC 288A with a grade of B or better"],"EDUC 266":["EDUC","Design-Based Implementation Research","Explores design-based implementation research (DBIR) to organize research and improvement efforts in education. Delves deeper into different techniques of partnership development, design, implementation, and improvement science to build a repertoire of practices for students' studies.",""],"EDUC 268":["EDUC","Out-of-School Learning and Development","Examines theory, research, and policy concerning out-of-school time and youth development. Several out-of-school contexts are considered (e.g, unsupervised care, informal leisure activities, and organized activities). A range of developmental outcomes are considered (e.g., achievement, social-emotional competence, and physical health).",""],"EDUC 274":["EDUC","Studies of Professional and Staff Development","Research and theory of effective strategies for professional and staff development. Topics include: adult learning as related to professional growth of teachers, staff development as vehicle for systemic reform, reforms to enhance teacher professionalization and empowerment.",""],"EDUC 276":["EDUC","Early Childhood Education Policy","Covers core topics in the field of early education policy. Integrates research from the various perspectives relevant to child policy in a practical way to understand the mechanisms of intervention and to develop policy solutions.",""],"EDUC 278":["EDUC","Experimental Designs in Educational Research","Designed to enable students to think critically about experimental research, and to develop an understanding of how to design and conduct experiments. The overall goal is to prepare students to independently plan and implement an experimental research study.","EDUC 222"],"EDUC 279":["EDUC","Advanced Qualitative Methods","Further developing qualitative inquiry skills for examining human interaction and studying lived experiences of individuals and communities. Practices and techniques for collecting, working with, and analyzing qualitative data to develop and justify claims.","EDUC 283A or EDUC 283B"],"EDUC 280":["EDUC","Research Methods: Hierarchical Linear Modeling","Research data often have a hierarchical structure, which require multi-level models. Students learn to use HLM; conduct appropriate analyses; and write the methods and results section for a peer-reviewed journal article. Previous coursework in regression is required.",""],"EDUC 283A":["EDUC","Qualitative Research Methods in Education I","Introduces students to qualitative research methodologies and methods and explores strengths and challenges of this research tradition. Topics include logistical and ethical issues, reliability, validity and generalizability, and the role of reflexivity. Students will also engage in fieldwork.","EDUC 222"],"EDUC 283B":["EDUC","Qualitative Research Methods in Education II","Provides methods for conducting and analyzing qualitative research in educational settings. Topics include data collection, coding, representing qualitative data, and using software for qualitative data analysis.","EDUC 283A"],"EDUC 287A":["EDUC","Quantitative Data Analysis in Education Research and Evaluation","Statistical aspects of survey-based evaluations and quantitative research in education. Includes sampling, coding open-ended information, data management, scale construction, statistical analysis, and presentation of findings. Students analyze data sets - a district-based evaluation and a national survey - using SPPS.","EDUC 281"],"EDUC 287B":["EDUC","Causal Inference: Methods for Program Evaluation and Policy Research","Provides students with a comprehensive overview of how to perform some more advanced statistical methods useful in answering policy questions using observational or experimental data.",""],"EDUC 288A":["EDUC","Educational, Social, and Behavioral Statistics","Designed for graduate students with previous course work in statistics, including experience with statistical software such as SPSS or Stata. The emphasis is on regression analysis and the general linear model. Students learn to analyze real data using Stata.",""],"EDUC 288B":["EDUC","Structural Equation Modeling for Educ, Soc & Behavioral Analysis","Rigorous introduction to structural equation modeling for students with strong prior course work in statistics. Topics include path diagrams, SEM with observed variables, factor analysis, SEM with latent variables. Maximum likelihood estimating, goodness-of-fit measures, nested models, related topics.","EDUC 288A"],"EDUC 289":["EDUC","Use of Video in Educational Research","Provides students with conceptual and methodological tools for using video in educational research.  Students work with their own video data or with publicly accessible databases.",""],"EDUC 295":["EDUC","Pre-Dissertation Research","Independent study course taken under the direction of a faculty member who guides the student's research. May include guidance on data collection, methodology, human subjects protocol, conference presentation, scholarly publication, program benchmark activities.",""],"EDUC 296A":["EDUC","Professional Writing in Educational Research I","First of a two-course series designed to extend students' knowledge of conducting and publishing educational research. Topics include the logic of research and how to effectively communicate research findings, with particular emphasis on proficient scientific writing.",""],"EDUC 296B":["EDUC","Professional Writing in Educational Research II","Second of a two-course series designed to extend students' knowledge of conducting and publishing educational research. Topics include the logic of research and how to effectively communicate research findings, with particular emphasis on proficient scientific writing.",""],"EDUC 298":["EDUC","Independent Study","Independent research on topics related to education.",""],"EDUC 299":["EDUC","Dissertation Reserach","Specifically designed for students researching and writing their dissertations.",""],"EDUC 301":["EDUC","Directed Elementary Field Experiences in Diverse Schools","Fieldwork experiences and seminars to provide introduction to the California Teaching Performance Expectations, including guidelines for professional expectations, observation and participation in classrooms, instructional planning, classroom management, and formative experiences and preparation for the state-mandated Teaching Performance Assessment.",""],"EDUC 302":["EDUC","Directed Secondary Field Experiences","Field work experiences and seminars to provide introduction to the California Teaching Performance Expectations, including guidelines for professional expectations, observation and participation in classrooms, instructional planning, classroom management, and formative experiences and preparation for the State-mandated Teaching Performance Assessment.",""],"EDUC 304":["EDUC","Student Teaching in the Elementary Schools","Student teaching seminars prepare candidates for assumption of classroom instructional responsibilities in accordance with State credentialing requirements. Four full days a week of student teaching in public school elementary classrooms in winter quarter and five full days in spring quarter.",""],"EDUC 305":["EDUC","Learning to Learn from Teaching in Secondary Schools","Analytic tools for (1) observing and reflecting on observed instruction; (2) examining student thinking and the relationship between teaching and learning; (3) understanding particular components of the teaching\/learning process; and (4) planning effective instruction including innovative teaching practices.",""],"EDUC 306":["EDUC","Supervised Teaching in Bilingual Education, Elementary","Student teaching experiences in bilingual public school classrooms to include orientation, regular seminars, and preparation for bilingual classroom instructional responsibilities in accordance with State credentialing requirements and in conjunction with the public school calendar.",""],"EDUC 307":["EDUC","Student Teaching in Intermediate\/Secondary School","Student teaching includes orientation, seminars, and preparation for and assumption of secondary school classroom instructional responsibilities in accordance with State credentialing requirements and in conjunction with public school calendar. Five full days a week in both winter and spring quarters.",""],"EDUC 320":["EDUC","Teaching Physical and Health Education in Elementary School","Methods of teaching physical education for the elementary classroom teacher. Through an interactive environment, students experience the California Physical Education and Health content standards with appropriate pedagogy. Concepts address motor skills, physical fitness, and personal responsibility for lifelong health.",""],"EDUC 322A":["EDUC","Curriculum and Methods for Elementary School Mathematics I","Scope, sequence, and methods of teaching mathematics at all levels of elementary school. Presented through lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and exploration of a variety of materials. Covers how to plan lessons, motivate students, diagnose difficulties, and evaluate learning in mathematics.",""],"EDUC 322B":["EDUC","Curriculum and Methods for Elementary School Mathematics II","Part two of a course addressing pedagogical methods for elementary mathematics. Lectures, discussions, and exploration of instructional strategies and materials support preservice teacher development in the critical areas of planning, instruction, and assessment for conceptual understanding in mathematics.",""],"EDUC 323A":["EDUC","Curriculum Methods in Elementary Science","Prospective elementary teachers learn how to teach science in grades K-8. Covers state science requirements, a variety of teaching methods, and criteria for selecting science curriculum materials.",""],"EDUC 323B":["EDUC","Curriculum Methods in Elementary Science","Prospective elementary teachers learn how to teach science in grades K-8. Covers state science requirements, a variety of teaching methods, criteria for selecting science curriculum materials, and how to plan science lessons, units, experiments, projects, and demonstrations.","EDUC 323A"],"EDUC 325":["EDUC","Teaching the Visual and Performing Arts in Elementary School","Introduction to the issues and practices -- including student diversity, academic literacy, and interdisciplinary content --  involved in integrating the California visual and performing arts curriculum framework and academic content standards with developmentally appropriate teaching strategies for the elementary classroom. Materials fee.",""],"EDUC 326":["EDUC","Curriculum and Methods for Elementary School Reading","Teaching an integrated reading\/language arts program in the elementary classroom. Implementing theories, principles, and methods which are research and reality-based. Creating a child-centered, language-rich program to meet needs of children in multicultural\/multilingual settings.",""],"EDUC 336":["EDUC","Methods of Teaching Languages other than English in Secondary Schools","Prepares future teachers of foreign language or primary\/home language. Emphasizes hands-on, practical strategies for communication-based instruction and authentic assessment in reading, writing, listening, speaking, and culture.",""],"EDUC 337":["EDUC","Methods of Teaching Social Science in the Secondary School","Theories, strategies, and methodologies related to the teaching of history and social science in the secondary school. Emphasis on the planning, delivery, and assessment of lessons reflecting an understanding of the History-Social Science Framework for California.",""],"EDUC 338":["EDUC","Methods of Teaching English in the Secondary School","Introduction to teaching reading, writing, and speaking skills in secondary school. Emphasis upon integrative approach to teaching literature, composition, and grammar consistent with the California State Framework. Practice in the design of lesson plans that are both integrated and cumulative.",""],"EDUC 339":["EDUC","Methods of Teaching Visual Arts in Secondary Schools","Theory, curriculum, and strategies for teaching visual arts in the secondary school. Emphasis on the planning, delivery, and assessment of lessons consistent with California State Framework and content standards.",""],"EDUC 340":["EDUC","Methods of Teaching Mathematics in Secondary School","Theories, strategies, and methodologies related to the teaching of mathematics in the secondary school. Emphasis on the planning, delivery, and assessment of lessons reflecting an understanding of the Mathematics Framework for California and the recommendations of professional organizations.",""],"EDUC 341":["EDUC","Teaching Science in Secondary School","Prospective secondary science teachers learn how to teach science in grades 7-12. Covers State science requirements, a variety of teaching methods, criteria for selecting science curricular materials, and how to plan science lessons, units, experiments, projects, and demonstrations.",""],"EDUC 342A":["EDUC","Applied Instructional Strategies in Secondary Schools","Application of pedagogy and research to practice teaching experiences in the secondary schools. A continuation of the methodology course series with an emphasis on the needs of students with culturally diverse backgrounds. Conducted in a five-week format.",""],"EDUC 342B":["EDUC","Applied Instructional Strategies in Secondary Schools","Application of pedagogy and research to practice teaching experiences in the secondary schools. A continuation of the methodology course series with an emphasis on the needs of students with culturally diverse backgrounds. Conducted in a five-week format.",""],"EDUC 346":["EDUC","Reading and Writing in Middle School and High School Classrooms","Emphasis is placed upon understanding the literacy processes (listening, speaking, viewing, reading, and writing) as they relate to all Single Subject areas. Teachers are guided to integrate literacy-related strategies with curriculum-based goals supported in the California State Frameworks.",""],"EDUC 347":["EDUC","Culture, Diversity, and Educational Equity ","Survey of the history of and social theories about the origins and consequences of U.S. racial, gender, and social inequality, and the effects of poverty and racism on the educational opportunities and outcomes of minority groups in the United States.",""],"EDUC 348A":["EDUC","Educational Equity and the Exceptional Learner I","Focuses on knowledge, skills, and strategies needed to teach special populations in general education secondary classrooms. Covers categories and characteristics of disability and exceptionality, state and federal legislation, and the role of general education teachers in the special education process.",""],"EDUC 348B":["EDUC","Educational Equity and the Exceptional Learner II","Emphasizes the use of differentiated instruction to meet special needs and the creation of a positive, inclusive learning environment that provides access to the core curriculum for special needs students.",""],"EDUC 349":["EDUC","Theories and Methods of English Language Development Applied to Secondary Students","Theories and methods of English language development and instruction of English language learners, with focus on secondary students. Includes language acquisition theory, language and content, assessment strategies, and preparation of curricula and instruction for grades 7-12 English language learners.",""],"EDUC 358":["EDUC","Media and Information Literacy in the Secondary Classroom","Focuses on how teachers can help their students to become critical, ethical, and effective users of technological resources in the secondary classroom. Students learn tools for evaluating, selecting, and incorporating appropriate learning technologies into the secondary classroom.",""],"EDUC 359":["EDUC","Curriculum and Methods for Elementary Social Science and Information Literacy","Methods of instruction for Social Science at the K-6 level. Includes integration of the use of technology, development of content literacy, and use of evidence to construct arguments.",""],"EDUC 361":["EDUC","The Adolescent Learner ","Issues of adolescent development and learning in family, school, and community contexts from biological, psychological, cognitive, and social perspectives. Focuses on how adolescents learn, what motivates them to learn, and how schools and teachers contribute to adolescents' growth.",""],"EDUC 362":["EDUC","Curriculum and Methods for Elementary Language Arts  and English Language Development","Methods, instructional practices, and assessment strategies for teaching English-Language Arts, with a focus on instructional practices for supporting English Language Learners. Focuses on core language arts topics, including composition of persuasive, expository, and narrative texts; speaking; and listening.",""],"EDUC 364":["EDUC","Instructional Design and Education Technology for the Elementary Classroom","Focuses on how teachers can effectively integrate educational technologies for teaching and learning in the elementary school classroom. Students learn tools for evaluating, selecting, and incorporating appropriate technologies into their classroom activities.",""],"EDUC 374":["EDUC","Learning and Child Development ","Issues of child development and learning in family, school, and community contexts from biological, psychological, cognitive, and social perspectives. Focuses on how young children learn and develop, how schools and teachers contribute to children's growth, and implications for instruction.",""],"EDUC 399":["EDUC","University Teaching","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"EECS 1":["EECS","Introduction to Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering","Introduction to the fields of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, including possible careers in both traditional and new emerging areas. Background on both the Electrical Engineering and the Computer Engineering majors, curriculum requirements, specializations, and faculty research interests.",""],"EECS 10":["EECS","Computational Methods in Electrical and Computer Engineering","An introduction to computers and structured programming. Binary Data Representation. Hands-on experience with a high-level structured programming language. Introduction to algorithm efficiency. Applications of structured programming in solving engineering problems. Programming laboratory.","MATH 2A"],"EECS 12":["EECS","Introduction to Programming","An introduction to computers and programming. Python programming syntax\/style, types. Numbers and sequences. Control flow. I\/O and errors\/exceptions. Function calling, parameter passing, formal arguments, return values. Variable scoping. Programming laboratory.",""],"EECS 20":["EECS","Computer Systems and C Programming","Introduction to computing systems. Data representation and operations. Simple logic design. Basic computer organization. Instruction set architecture and assembly language programming. Introduction to C. Functions and recursion, data structures, pointers. Programming laboratory.","EECS 12"],"EECS 22":["EECS","Advanced C Programming","C language programming concepts. Control flow, function calls, recursion. Basic and composite data types, static and dynamic data structures. Program modules and compilation units. Preprocessor macros. C standard libraries.","EECS 10 or EECS 20"],"EECS 22L":["EECS","Software Engineering Project in C Language","Hands-on experience with the ANSI-C programming language. Medium-sized programming projects, team work. Software specification, documentation, implementation, testing. Definition of data structures and application programming interface. Creation of program modules, linking with external libraries. Rule-based compilation, version control.","EECS 22"],"EECS 31":["EECS","Introduction to Digital Systems","Digital representation of information. Specification, analysis, design and optimization or combinational and sequential logic, register-transfer components and register-transfer systems with datapaths and controllers. Introduction to high-level and algorithmic state-machines and custom processors.","ICS 31 or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or MAE 10"],"EECS 31L":["EECS","Introduction to Digital Logic Laboratory","Introduction to common digital integrated circuits: gates, memory circuits, MSI components. Operating characteristics, specifications, applications. Design of simple combinational and sequential digital systems (arithmetic processors game-playing machines). Construction and debugging techniques using hardware description languages and CAD tools.","EECS 31 and (EECS 10 or EECS 12 or ICS 32)"],"EECS 40":["EECS","Object-Oriented Systems and Programming","Primitive types and expressions. The class and method definition. Information hiding and encapsulation. Objects and reference. Overloading. Constructors. Inheritance basics. Programming with inheritance. Dynamic binding and polymorphism. Exception handling. An overview of streams and file input\/output. Programming laboratory.","EECS 22L"],"EECS 50":["EECS","Discrete-Time Signals and Systems","Analysis of discrete-time linear-time-invariant (DTLTI) systems in the time domain and using z-transforms.  Introduction to techniques based on Discrete-Time, Discrete, and Fast Fourier Transforms. Examples of their application to digital signal processing and digital communications.","EECS 70A"],"EECS 55":["EECS","Engineering Probability","Sets and set operations; nature of probability, sample spaces, fields of events, probability measures; conditional probability, independence, random variables, distribution functions, density functions, conditional distributions and densities; moments, characteristic functions, random sequences, independent and Markov sequences.","MATH 2D"],"EECS 70A":["EECS","Network Analysis I","Modeling and analysis of electrical networks. Basic network theorems. Sinusoidal steady state and transient analysis of RLC networks and the impedance concept.","PHYS 7D and (EECS 10 or EECS 12 or MAE 10 or ICS 31 or CEE 20)"],"EECS 70B":["EECS","Network Analysis II","Laplace transforms, complex frequency, and the s-plane. Network functions and frequency response, including resonance. Bode plots. Two-port network characterization.","(BME 60B or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or ICS 31 or CEE 20 or MAE 10) and EECS 70A"],"EECS 70LA":["EECS","Network Analysis I Laboratory","Laboratory to accompany EECS 70A.","PHYS 7D and (EECS 10 or EECS 12 or BME 60B or CEE 20 or MAE 10)"],"EECS 70LB":["EECS","Network Analysis II Laboratory","Laboratory to accompany EECS 70B.  Materials fee.","(BME 60B or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or ICS 31 or CEE 20 or MAE 10) and EECS 70A"],"EECS 101":["EECS","Introduction to Machine Vision","The use of digital computers for the analysis of visual scenes; image formation and sensing, color, segmentation, shape estimation, motion, stereo, pattern classification, computer architectures, applications. Computer experiments are used to illustrate fundamental principles.","EECS 150 or EECS 50"],"EECS 111":["EECS","System Software","Multiprogramming, interrupt, processes, kernel, parallelism, critical sections, deadlocks, communication, multiprocessing, multilevel memory management, binding, name management, file systems, protection, resource allocation, scheduling. Experience with concurrent programming, synchronization mechanisms, interprocess communication.","EECS 112 and (ICS 46 or EECS 114)"],"EECS 112":["EECS","Organization of Digital Computers","Building blocks and organization of digital computers, the arithmetic, control, and memory units, and input\/out devices and interfaces. Microprogramming and microprocessors.","EECS 31L"],"EECS 112L":["EECS","Organization of Digital Computers Laboratory","Specification and implementation of a processor-based system using a hardware description language such as VHDL. Hands-on experience with design tools including simulation, synthesis, and evaluation using testbenches.","EECS 112"],"EECS 113":["EECS","Processor Hardware\/Software Interfaces","Hardware\/software interfacing, including memory and bus interfaces, devices, I\/O, and compiler code generation\/instruction scheduling. Experience microcontroller programming and interfacing. Specific compiler code generation techniques including local variable and register allocations, instruction dependence and scheduling, and code optimization.","EECS 112"],"EECS 114":["EECS","Engineering Data Structures and Algorithms","Introduces abstract behavior of classes data structures, alternative implementations, informal analysis of time and space efficiency. Also introduces classic algorithms and efficient algorithm design techniques (recursion, divide-and-conquer, branch-and-bound, dynamic programming).","EECS 40"],"EECS 116":["EECS","Introduction to Data Management","Introduction to the design of databases and the use of database management systems (DBMS) for applications. Topics include entity-relationship modeling for design, relational data model, relational algebra, relational design theory, and Structured Query Language (SQL) programming.","ICS 33 or EECS 114. ICS 33 with a grade of C or better"],"EECS 117":["EECS","Parallel Computer Systems","General introduction to parallel computing focusing on parallel algorithms and architectures. Parallel models: Flynn's taxonomy, dataflow models. Parallel architectures: systolic arrays, hypercube architecture, shared memory machines, dataflow machines, reconfigurable architectures. Parallel algorithms appropriate to each machine type area also discussed.","EECS 20 and EECS 114 and EECS 112"],"EECS 118":["EECS","Introduction to Artificial Intelligence","Introduction of basic concepts in artificial intelligence. Knowledge representation and reasoning, search, planning, declarative programing, problem solving, and data science.","EECS 114"],"EECS 119":["EECS","VLSI","Design techniques for Very Large Scale Integrated (VLSI) systems and chips. Review CMOS and related process technologies; primitives such as logic gates and larger design blocks; layout; floor planning; design hierarchy, component interfaces; use of associated CAD tools for design.","EECS 112 and EECS 170B"],"EECS 120":["EECS","Fundamentals of Parallel Computing","Fundamentals of parallel computing, focusing on parallel algorithms and architectures. Topics include design of parallel and I\/O efficient algorithms, basics of parallel machine architectures, and current\/emerging programming models (shared memory, distributed memory, and accelerators).","(EECS 12 or CS 152) and EECS 114"],"EECS 121":["EECS","System Security","Fundamentals and practices of system security. Topics include cryptographic (encryption, decryption, and message authentication), software vulnerabilities (buffer overflow), network security (layer 2-7 attacks and defenses and PKI), web security (XSS and XSRF), and privacy.","EECS 22 or ICS 45C"],"EECS 141A":["EECS","Communication Systems I","Introduction to analog communication systems including effects of noise. Modulation-demodulation for AM, DSB-SC, SSB, VSB, QAM, FM, PM, and PCM with application to radio, television, and telephony. Signal processing as applied to communication systems.","EECS 55 and EECS 150"],"EECS 141B":["EECS","Communication Systems II","Signal space analysis. Optimum receivers for digital communication. Maximum a posteriori and maximum likelihood detection. Matched filter and correlation receiver.  PAM, QAM, PSK, FSK, and MSK and their performance. Introduction to equalization, synchronization, information theory, and error control codes.","EECS 141A"],"EECS 144":["EECS","Antenna Design for Wireless Communication Links","Analysis and synthesis of antennas and antenna arrays.  Adaptive arrays and digital beam forming for advanced wireless links.  Friis transmission formula.  Wireless communication equations for cell-site and mobile antennas, interference, slow and fast fading in mobile communication.","EECS 180A"],"EECS 145":["EECS","Electrical Engineering Analysis","Vector calculus, complex functions, and linear algebra with applications to electrical engineering problems.","MATH 3D"],"EECS 148":["EECS","Computer Networks","Computer network architectures, protocols, and applications.  Internet congestion control, addressing, and routing. Local area networks. Multimedia networking.","EECS 55 or STAT 67"],"EECS 150":["EECS","Continuous-Time Signals and Systems","Characteristics and properties of continuous-time (analog) signals and systems. Analysis of linear time-invariant continuous-time systems using differential equation convolutional models. Analysis of these systems using Laplace transforms, Fourier series, and Fourier transforms. Examples from applications to telecommunications.","EECS 70A and EECS 145"],"EECS 152A":["EECS","Digital Signal Processing","Nature of sampled data, sampling theorem, difference equations, data holds, z-transform, w-transform, digital filters, Butterworth and Chebychev filters, quantization effects.","EECS 50"],"EECS 152B":["EECS","Digital Signal Processing Design and Laboratory","Design and implementation of algorithms on a DSP processor and using computer simulation. Applications in signal and image processing, communications, radar, etc.","EECS 152A"],"EECS 159A":["EECS","Senior Design Project I","Teaches problem definition, detailed design, integration, and testability with teams of students specifying, designing, building, and testing complex systems. Lectures include engineering values, discussions, and ethical ramifications of engineering decisions.","EECS 113 or EECS 170C or CS 145"],"EECS 159B":["EECS","Senior Design Project II","Teaches problem definition, detailed design, integration, and testability with teams of students specifying, designing, building, and testing complex systems. Lectures include engineering values, discussions, and ethical ramifications of engineering decisions. Materials fee.","EECS 159A"],"EECS 160A":["EECS","Introduction to Control Systems","Modeling, stability, and specifications of feedback control systems. Root locus, Bode plots, Nyquist criteria, and state-space methods for dynamic analysis and design.","(EECS 10 or EECS 12 or MAE 10 or BME 60B or CEE 20) and EECS 150 and EECS 170B and EECS 170LB"],"EECS 160LA":["EECS","Control Systems I Laboratory","Laboratory accompanying EECS 160A. Materials fee.",""],"EECS 163":["EECS","Power Systems","Generation, transmission, and use of electrical energy. Fault calculation, protection, stability, and power flow.","EECS 70B"],"EECS 163L":["EECS","Power Systems Laboratory","Experiments and field trips relevant to studies in power systems. Materials fee.",""],"EECS 166A":["EECS","Industrial and Power Electronics","Power switching devices, pulse width modulation (PWM) methods, switching converter topologies, control, and magnetics. Materials fee.","EECS 170C and EECS 160A"],"EECS 170A":["EECS","Electronics I","The properties of semiconductors, electronic conduction in solids, the physics and operation principles of semiconductor devices such as diodes and transistors, transistor equivalent circuits, and transistor amplifiers.","PHYS 7D and EECS 70B"],"EECS 170B":["EECS","Electronics II","Design and analysis of single-stage amplifiers, biasing circuits, inverters, logic gates, and memory elements based on CMOS transistors.","EECS 70B and EECS 170A and EECS 170LA"],"EECS 170C":["EECS","Electronics III","Principles of operation, design, and utilization of integrated circuit modules, including multi-stage amplifiers, operational amplifiers, and logic circuits.","EECS 170B and EECS 170LB"],"EECS 170D":["EECS","Integrated Electronic Circuit Design","Design and fabrication of modern digital integrated circuits. Fabrication of CMOS process, transistor-level design simulation, functional characteristics of basic digital integrated circuits, and different logic families including the static and dynamic logic, layout, and extraction of digital circuits.","EECS 170C and EECS 170LC"],"EECS 170E":["EECS","Analog and Communications IC Design","Advanced topics in design of analog and communications integrated circuits. Topics include: implementation of passive components in integrated circuits; overview of frequency response of amplifiers, bandwidth estimation techniques, high-frequency amplifier design; design of radio-frequency oscillators.","EECS 170C"],"EECS 170LA":["EECS","Electronics I Laboratory","Laboratory accompanying EECS 170A to perform experiments on semiconductor material properties, semiconductor device physics and operation principles, and transistor amplifiers to improve experimental skills and to enhance the understanding of lecture materials.","PHYS 7D and EECS 70B"],"EECS 170LB":["EECS","Electronics II Laboratory","Laboratory accompanying EECS 170B.","EECS 170A and EECS 170LA"],"EECS 170LC":["EECS","Electronics III Laboratory","Laboratory accompanying EECS 170C to provide hands-on training in design of digital\/analog circuits\/subsystems. Materials fee.","EECS 170B and EECS 170LB"],"EECS 174":["EECS","Semiconductor Devices","Metal-semiconductor junctions, diodes, bipolar junction transistors, MOS structures, MOSFETs, CMOS technology, LEDs, and laser diodes.","EECS 170A"],"EECS 176":["EECS","Fundamentals of Solid-State Electronics and Materials","Physical properties of semiconductors and the roles materials play in device operation. Topics include: crystal structure, phonon vibrations, energy band, transport phenomenon, optical properties and quantum confinement effect essential to the understanding of electronic, optoelectronic and nanodevices.","EECS 170A"],"EECS 179":["EECS","Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS)","Small-scale machines, small-scale phenomena, MEMS fabrication, MEMS CAD tools, MEMS devices and packaging, MEMS testing.",""],"EECS 180A":["EECS","Engineering Electromagnetics I","Electrostatics, magnetostatics, and electromagnetic fields: solutions to problems in engineering applications; transmission lines, Maxwell's equations and phasors, plane wave propagation, reflection, and transmission.","PHYS 7E and EECS 145"],"EECS 180B":["EECS","Engineering Electromagnetics II","Time-varying electromagnetic fields, plane waves, polarization, guidance of waves like rectangular waveguides and microstrips, optical fibers resonant cavities, skin effects and losses, spherical waves, radiation and reception of waves, antenna basics.","EECS 180A"],"EECS 182":["EECS","Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit (MMIC) Analysis and Design","Design of microwave amplifiers including low-noise amplifiers, multiple stage amplifiers, power amplifiers, and introduction to broadband amplifiers. The goal is to provide the basic knowledge for the design of microwave amplifiers ranging from wireless system to radar system.","EECS 180A"],"EECS 188":["EECS","Optical Electronics","Photodiodes and optical detection, photometry and radiometry, geometric optics, lens theory, imaging system, EM wave propagation, optical waveguides and fibers, heterojunction structures, laser theory, semiconductor lasers, and optical transmission system.","EECS 180A"],"EECS 195":["EECS","Special Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering","Studies special topics in selected areas of Electrical and Computer Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"EECS 198":["EECS","Group Study","Group study of selected topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering.",""],"EECS 199":["EECS","Individual Study","For undergraduate Engineering majors in supervised but independent reading, research, or design. Students taking Individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"EECS 199P":["EECS","Individual Study","For undergraduate Engineering majors in supervised but independent reading, research, or design. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"EECS 202P":["EECS","Techniques in Medical Imaging: X-ray, Nuclear, and NMR Imaging","Ionizing radiation, planar and tomographic radiographic and nuclear imaging, magnetism, NMR, MRI imaging.",""],"EECS 203A":["EECS","Digital Image Processing","Pixel-level digital image representation and elementary operations; Fourier and other unitary transforms; compression, enhancement, filtering, and restoration; laboratory experience is provided.",""],"EECS 203P":["EECS","Digital Image Processing","Pixel-level digital image representation and elementary operations; Fourier and other unitary transforms; compression, enhancement, filtering, and restoration; laboratory experience is provided.",""],"EECS 211":["EECS","Advanced System Software","Study of operating systems including interprocess communication, scheduling, resource management, concurrency, reliability, validation, protection and security, and distributed computing support. System software design languages and modeling analysis.",""],"EECS 211P":["EECS","Advanced System Software","Study of operating systems including interprocess communication, scheduling, resource management, concurrency, reliability, validation, protection and security, and distributed computing support. System software design languages and modeling analysis.","Recommended: Undergraduate-level knowledge of system software (e.g. EECS 111) and organization of digital computers (e.g. UCI EECS 112)."],"EECS 213":["EECS","Computer Architecture","Problems in hardware, firmware (microprogram), and software. Computer architecture for resource sharing, real-time applications, parallelism, microprogramming, and fault tolerance. Various architectures based on cost\/performance and current technology.",""],"EECS 213P":["EECS","Computer Architecture","Problems in hardware, firmware (microprogram), and software. Computer architecture for resource sharing, real-time applications, parallelism, microprogramming, and fault tolerance. Various architectures based on cost\/performance and current technology.","Recommended: Undergraduate-level knowledge of organization of digital computers (e.g. EECS 112 and EECS 112L)."],"EECS 215":["EECS","Design and Analysis of Algorithms","Computer algorithms from a practical standpoint.  Algorithms for symbolic and numeric problems such as sorting, searching, graphs, and network flow.  Analysis includes algorithm time and space complexity.",""],"EECS 215P":["EECS","Design and Analysis of Algorithms","Computer algorithms from a practical standpoint. Algorithms for symbolic and numeric problems such as sorting, searching, graphs, and network flow. Analysis includes algorithm time and space complexity.",""],"EECS 216":["EECS","Advanced Application of Algorithms","Medium-sized group and individual programming project. Topics include specification requirements documentation, practical implementation of algorithms, and testing\/verification of design.","Recommended: Undergraduate course work in engineering data structures and algorithms."],"EECS 217":["EECS","VLSI System Design","Overview of integrated fabrication, circuit simulation, basic device physics, device layout, timing; MOS logic design; layout generation, module generation, techniques for very large scale integrated circuit design.",""],"EECS 217P":["EECS","VLSI System Design","Overview of integrated fabrication, circuit simulation, basic device physics, device layout, timing; MOS logic design; layout generation, module generation, techniques for very large scale integrated circuit design.","Recommended: Undergraduate-level knowledge of organization of digital computers (e.g. EECS 112)."],"EECS 220P":["EECS","Advanced Digital Signal Processing Architecture","Study the latest DSP architectures for applications in communication (wired and wireless) and multimedia processing. Emphasis given to understanding the current design techniques and to evaluate the performance, power, and application domain of the latest DSP processors.","EECS 213P"],"EECS 221":["EECS","Topics in Computer Engineering","New research results in computer engineering.",""],"EECS 222":["EECS","Embedded System Modeling","Computational models for embedded systems. System-level specification and description languages. Concepts, requirements, examples. Embedded system models at different levels of abstraction. Modeling of test benches, design under test, IP components. Discrete event simulation, semantics, and algorithms. Formerly EECS 222A.",""],"EECS 223":["EECS","Real-Time Computer Systems","Time bases, clock synchronization, real-time communication protocols, specification of requirements, task scheduling. Validation of timelines, real-time configuration management.","EECS 211 and EECS 213"],"EECS 223P":["EECS","Real-Time Computer Systems","Time bases, clock synchronization, real-time communication protocols, specification of requirements, task scheduling. Validation of timelines, real-time configuration management.","EECS 211P and EECS 213P"],"EECS 224":["EECS","High-Performance Computing","Fundamentals of high-performance computing, covering both theory and practice. Topics include performance analysis and tuning, design of parallel and I\/O efficient algorithms, basics of parallel machine architectures, and current\/emerging programming models (shared memory, distributed memory, and accelerators).","EECS 215 or CS 260"],"EECS 226":["EECS","Embedded System Software","Embedded system software concepts, requirements, examples, for engineering applications such as multi-media and automotive. Software generation methodology. Algorithmic specification, design constraints. Embedded operating systems. Static, dynamic, real-time scheduling. Input\/output, interrupt handling. Code generation, compilation, instruction set simulation. Formerly EECS 222C.",""],"EECS 227":["EECS","Cyber-Physical System Design","Model-based design of cyber-physical systems including, e.g., plant, sensing, control, actuation, embedded hardware\/software, communication, real-time analysis, various levels of simulation (MILS, SILS, HILS), tools and methodologies for automatic synthesis, and application from various interdisciplinary domains.",""],"EECS 230":["EECS","Energy Efficiency","Green energy sources for production, transmission, storage, and utilization of electricity, with a special focus on solar, wind, and nuclear energy production. Study of newly developed renewable sources of energy including capital cost, product cost, environmental issues, and technical feasibility.",""],"EECS 231":["EECS","Advanced System Security","Advanced study about system security. Topics include software vulnerabilities (buffer overflow), vulnerability discovery (fuzzing),  network security, side-channel analysis (power analysis and micro-architecture attacks), machine-learning security, IoT security, and privacy (differential privacy).",""],"EECS 240":["EECS","Random Processes","Extensions of probability theory to random variables varying with time. General properties of stochastic processes. Convergence. Estimation, including nonlinear and linear minimum mean square error and maximum likelihood. Spectral density and linear filters. Poisson processes and discrete-time Markov chains.",""],"EECS 240P":["EECS","Random Processes","Extensions of probability theory to random variables varying with time. General properties of stochastic processes. Convergence. Estimation, including nonlinear and linear minimum mean square error and maximum likelihood. Spectral density and linear filters. Poisson processes and discrete-time Markov chains.","Recommended: Knowledge of engineering probability (e.g. EECS 55)."],"EECS 241A":["EECS","Digital Communications I","Concepts and applications of digital communication systems. Baseband digital transmission of binary, multiamplitude, and multidimensional signals.  Introduction to and performance analysis of different modulation schemes.",""],"EECS 241AP":["EECS","Digital Communications I","Concepts and applications of digital communication systems. Baseband digital transmission of binary, multiamplitude, and multidimensional signals. Introduction to and performance analysis of different modulation schemes.",""],"EECS 241B":["EECS","Digital Communications II","Concepts and applications of equalization, multi-carrier modulation, spread spectrum and CDMA. Digital communications through fading memory channels.","EECS 241A"],"EECS 241BP":["EECS","Digital Communications II","Concepts and applications of equalization, multi-carrier modulation, spread spectrum, and CDMA. Digital communications through fading memory channels.","EECS 241AP"],"EECS 242":["EECS","Information Theory","Fundamental capabilities and limitations of information sources and information transmission systems. Analytical framework for modeling and evaluating communication systems: entropy, mutual information asymptotic equipartition property, entropy rates of a stochastic process, data compression, channel capacity, differential entropy, the Gaussian channel.","EECS 240"],"EECS 243":["EECS","Error Correcting Codes","Different techniques for error correcting codes and analyzing their performance. Linear block codes; cyclic codes; convolutional codes. Minimum distance; optimal decoding; Viterbi decoding; bit error probability. Coding gain; trellis coded modulation.","EECS 240"],"EECS 244":["EECS","Wireless Communications","Introduction to wireless communications systems. Wireless channel modeling. Single carries, spread spectrum, and multi-carrier wireless modulation schemes. Diversity techniques.  Multiple-access schemes. Transceiver design and system level tradeoffs. Brief overview of GSM, CDMA, (IS-95) and 2.5, 3G cellular schemes.","EECS 241B"],"EECS 244P":["EECS","Wireless Communications","Introduction to wireless communications systems. Wireless channel modeling. Single carries, spread spectrum, and multi-carrier wireless modulation schemes. Diversity techniques. Multiple-access schemes. Transceiver design and system level tradeoffs. Brief overview of GSM, CDMA, (IS-95) and 2.5, 3G cellular schemes.","EECS 241BP"],"EECS 247":["EECS","Information Storage","Storage architecture, storage network and networking algorithms in data centers, principle of storage devices and non-volatile memory, data consistency, data availability and integrity, power management.",""],"EECS 248A":["EECS","Computer and Communication Networks","Network architecture of the Internet, telephone networks, cable networks, and cell phone networks. Network performance models. Network performance models. Advanced concepts and implementations of flow and congestion control, addressing, internetworking, forwarding, routing, multiple access, streaming, and quality-of-service.","EECS 148 or CS 132"],"EECS 250":["EECS","Digital Signal Processing I","Fundamental principles of digital signal processing, sampling, decimation and interpolation, discrete Fourier transforms and FFT algorithms, transversal and recursive filters, discrete random processes, and finite-word effects in digital filters.",""],"EECS 250P":["EECS","Digital Signal Processing I","Fundamental principles of digital signal processing, sampling, decimation and interpolation, discrete Fourier transforms and FFT algorithms, transversal and recursive filters, discrete random processes, and finite-word effects in digital filters.","Recommended: Knowledge of digital signal processing (e.g. EECS 152A)."],"EECS 251B":["EECS","Detection, Estimation, and Demodulation Theory","Fundamentals of hypothesis testing and Bayes and Maximum Likelihood Estimation.  ARMA and state variable models for random time series analysis.  Wiener and Kalman filtering and prediction.  Adaptive algorithms for identification and tracking of parameters of time-varying models.","EECS 240"],"EECS 260A":["EECS","Linear Systems I","State-space representation of continuous-time and discrete-time linear systems. Controllability, observability, stability. Realization of rational transfer functions.",""],"EECS 261A":["EECS","Linear Optimization Methods","Formulation, solution, and analysis of linear programming and linear network flow problems. Simplex methods, dual ascent methods, interior point algorithms, and auction algorithms. Duality theory and sensitivity analysis. Shortest path, max-flow, assignment, and minimum cost flow problems.",""],"EECS 267A":["EECS","Industrial and Power Electronics","Power switching devices, pulse width modulation (PWM) methods, switching converter topologies, control, and magnetics. Materials fee.",""],"EECS 267B":["EECS","Topics in Industrial and Power Electronics","Practical design of switching converters, electromagnetic compatibility, thermal management, and\/or control methods.","EECS 267A"],"EECS 270A":["EECS","Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design I","Basic transistor configurations; differential pairs; active load\/current sources; supply\/temperature-independent biasing; op-amp gain and output stages; amplifier frequency response and stability compensation; nonidealities in op-amps; noise and dynamic range in analog circuits.",""],"EECS 270AP":["EECS","Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design I","Basic transistor configurations; differential pairs; active load\/current sources; supply\/temperature-independent biasing; op-amp gain and output stages; amplifier frequency response and stability compensation; nonidealities in op-amps; noise and dynamic range in analog circuits.","Recommended: Introductory knowledge of control systems (e.g. EECS 160A) and electronics (e.g. EECS 170C)."],"EECS 270B":["EECS","Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design II","Advanced transistor modeling issues; discrete-time and continuous-time analog Integrated Circuit (IC) filters; phase-locked loops; design of ICs operating at radio frequencies; low-voltage\/low-power design techniques; A\/D and D\/A converters; AGC circuits.","EECS 270A"],"EECS 270BP":["EECS","Advanced Analog Integrated Circuit Design II","Advanced transistor modeling issues; discrete-time and continuous-time analog Integrated Circuit (IC) filters; phase-locked loops; design of ICs operating at radio frequencies; low-voltage\/low-power design techniques; A\/D and D\/A converters; AGC circuits.","EECS 270AP"],"EECS 270C":["EECS","Design of Integrated Circuits for Broadband Applications","Topics include: broadband standards and protocols; high-frequency circuit design techniques; PLL theory and design; design of transceivers; electrical\/optical interfaces.","EECS 270A"],"EECS 270D":["EECS","Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuit Design","Topics include: RF component modeling; matching network design; transmission line theory\/modeling; Smith chart and S-parameters; noise modeling of active and passive components; high-frequency amplifier design; low-noise amplifier (LNA) design; mixer design; RF power amplifier.","EECS 270A"],"EECS 270E":["EECS","High Frequency (Millimeter-Wave and Terahertz) Circuits","Discussion of the new methodologies, circuits, and systems developed at mm-wave and terahertz frequency ranges due to the growing interest in high speed communication and high frequency signal generation.",""],"EECS 272P":["EECS","Radio-Frequency Integrated Circuit Design","Topics include RF component modeling; matching network design; transmission line theory\/modeling; Smith chart and S-parameters; noise modeling of active and passive components; high-frequency amplifier design; low-noise amplifier (LNA) design; mixer design; RF power amplifier.","EECS 270AP. EECS 270AP with a grade of B or better"],"EECS 277A":["EECS","Advanced Semiconductor Devices I","Advanced complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistors (CMOSFET), device scaling, device modeling and fabrication, equivalent circuits, and their applications for digital, analog, RF.",""],"EECS 277B":["EECS","Advanced Semiconductor Devices II","Metal-semiconductor field-effect transistors (MESFET), heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBT), microwave semiconductor devices, equivalent circuits, device modeling and fabrication, microwave amplifiers, transmitters, and receivers.",""],"EECS 277C":["EECS","Nanotechnology","Fabrication and characterization techniques of electrical circuit elements at the nanometer scale. Quantized conductance, semiconductor quantum dots, single electron transistors, molecular wires, carbon nanotubes, self-assembly of nano-circuit elements, quantum methods of information processing.",""],"EECS 278":["EECS","Micro-System Design","Covers the fundamentals of the many disciplines needed for design of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS): microfabrication technology, structural mechanics on micro-scale, electrostatics, circuit interface, control, computer-aided design, and system integration.",""],"EECS 279":["EECS","Micro-Sensors and Actuators","Introduction to the technology of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS). Fundamental principles and applications of important microsensors, actuation principles on microscale.  Introduction to the elements of signal processing; processing of materials for micro sensor\/actuator fabrication; smart sensors and microsensor\/microactuator array devices.",""],"EECS 280A":["EECS","Advanced Engineering Electromagnetics I","Stationary electromagnetic fields, Maxwell's equations, circuits and transmission lines, plane waves, guided waves, and radiation.",""],"EECS 280B":["EECS","Advanced Engineering Electromagnetics II","Two- and three-dimensional boundary value problems, dielectric waveguides and other special waveguides, microwave networks and antenna arrays, electromagnetic properties of materials, and electromagnetic optics.","EECS 280A"],"EECS 280P":["EECS","Advanced Engineering Electromagnetics I","Stationary electromagnetic fields, Maxwell's equations, circuits and transmission lines, plane waves, guided waves, and radiation.","Recommended: Knowledge of engineering electromagnetics (e.g. EECS 180A)."],"EECS 282":["EECS","Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit (MMIC) Analysis and Design II","Design of microwave amplifiers using computer-aided design tools. Covers low-noise amplifiers, multiple stage amplifiers, broadband amplifiers, and power amplifiers. Hybrid circuit design techniques including filters and baluns. Theory and design rules for microwave oscillator design.",""],"EECS 284P":["EECS","RF Antenna Design ","Advanced transmission line design, radiation of electromagnetic waves, dipole antennas, antenna arrays, advanced antenna designs, and practical design considerations in communications systems. Course is supplemented by RF design tools and modeling.","EECS 280AP"],"EECS 285A":["EECS","Optical Communications","Introduction to fiber optic communication systems, optical and electro-optic materials, and high-speed optical modulation and switching devices.",""],"EECS 285B":["EECS","Lasers and Photonics","Covers the fundamentals of lasers and applications, including Gaussian beam propagation, interaction of optical radiation with matters, and concepts of optical gain and feedback. Applications are drawn from diverse fields of optical communication, signal processing, and material diagnosis.","Undergraduate course work in electromagnetic theory and atomic physics."],"EECS 285C":["EECS","Nano Imaging","Theory and practice of modern nanoscale imaging techniques and applications. Traces the development of microscopy from ancient times to modern day techniques used for visualizing the nano-world from atoms to molecules including hands-on experience in the laboratory.",""],"EECS 285P":["EECS","Optical Communications","Introduction to fiber optic communication systems, optical and electro-optic materials, and high-speed optical modulation and switching devices.","Undergraduate-level Engineering Electromagnetics I (e.g. EECS E80A)."],"EECS 286":["EECS","Fabrication of Biomedical and Wearable Microdevices","Covers preliminary details on prototyping and fabrication techniques for biomedical and wearable microdevices. Fabrication and behavior of modern biomed device materials such as hydrogel, PDMS, biopolymer, smart materials, and their uses are introduced.","Required: Knowledge of undergraduate-level basic physics."],"EECS 287":["EECS","Micro\/Nano Biotechnology and Biosensing: Fundamentals, Designs, and Applications","Provides insight into the current topics in Micro\/Nanoscience, Micro\/Nanotechnology fundamentals, and their modern-day applications in life sciences. Focus is on Micro\/Nanodevices; Sensors' fundamentals; NanoBioSensors; Microfluidics; Micro\/Nanofabrication, detection system-level characterization; performance determination; solid-state materials; and more.",""],"EECS 289":["EECS","Bioinstrumentation","Introduces instrumentation used in biomedical research, clinical medicine, and health monitoring. Interfacing of bioelectronics and biomedical sensing are taught with the most updated methods. The integration of bioinstrumentation with data science and cloud computing are introduced.",""],"EECS 292":["EECS","Preparation for M","Individual reading and preparation for the M.S. comprehensive examination.",""],"EECS 293":["EECS","Preparation for Ph","Individual reading and preparation for the Ph.D. preliminary examination.",""],"EECS 294":["EECS","Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Colloquium","Invited speakers discuss their latest research results in electrical engineering and computer science.",""],"EECS 295":["EECS","Seminars in Engineering","Scheduled each year by individual faculty in major field of interest.",""],"EECS 295P":["EECS","Special Topics in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science","Studies in selected areas of Electrical Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"EECS 296":["EECS","Master of Science Thesis Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in the pursuit of preparing and completing the thesis required for the M.S. degree in Engineering.",""],"EECS 297":["EECS","Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparing and completing the dissertation required for the Ph.D. degree in Engineering.",""],"EECS 298":["EECS","Topics in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science","Study of Electrical and Computer Engineering concepts.",""],"EECS 299":["EECS","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"ECPS 202":["ECPS","Cyber-Physical Systems Design","Requirements and specification, models of computation, tools, design, merging cyber and physical, data-driven modeling for edge artificial intelligence systems, cyber-physical examples. Design process, specification, requirements, modeling, components, selection, interfaces, system structure, different levels, verification, testing.",""],"ECPS 203":["ECPS","Embedded Systems Modeling and Design","Embedded systems definition, system-level specification, models and languages. Concepts, requirements, examples. Embedded system models at different levels of abstraction. Test benches, design under test, IP components. Discrete event simulation, semantics, and algorithms.",""],"ECPS 204":["ECPS","Embedded System Software","Embedded system software requirements, concepts, and examples for applications in the cyber-physical domain. Embedded operating systems, real-time system software (RTOS), I\/O software. Multithreading. System software for power and energy management, and middleware.",""],"ECPS 205":["ECPS","Sensors, Actuators, and Sensor Networks","Fundamental principles and applications of sensors, actuators. Smart sensors and microsensor\/microactuator array devices. Introduction to signal processing and sensor\/actuator networks, deployment and architecture, wireless communication, multiple access control layer, data gathering, routing and querying, collaborating signal processing.",""],"ECPS 206":["ECPS","Real-Time and Distributed Systems","Time dependent systems, clock synchronization, real-time communication protocols, specification of requirements, task scheduling. Validation of timelines, real-time configuration management. Middleware architecture for distributed real-time and secure services.",""],"ECPS 207":["ECPS","Security and Privacy in Cyber-Physical Systems","Embedded and cyber-physical systems security: attacks and countermeasures, authentication, identification, confidentiality, data integrity, authorization, access control, security protocols. Privacy awareness and mitigation. Side-channel attacks and defenses. Applications of public key and symmetric cryptography, digital certificates, credentials.",""],"ECPS 208":["ECPS","Control Systems for Cyber-Physical Systems","Dynamic models, from first principles or via identification. Concepts in control (stability, controllability, observability). Control design (continuous times) and digital implementation. Introduction to optimization and direct discrete time control. Multi-agent systems, their control and implementation related concepts.",""],"ECPS 209":["ECPS","Cyber-Physical Systems Case Studies        ","Covers CPS case studies in applications such as (but not limited to): automotive and transportation, manufacturing, power distribution grid, medical and healthcare, robotics, civil infrastructure, avionics.",""],"ECPS 210":["ECPS","Cyber-Physical Systems Project","Students are required to complete a project that deals with a specific emphasis of Cyber-Physical Systems, such as (but not limited to): automotive, transportation, manufacturing, power grid, medical healthcare, robotics, civil infrastructure, avionics.","ECPS 202 or ECPS 203 or ECPS 216"],"ECPS 211":["ECPS","Machine Learning and Data Mining","Introduction to principles of machine learning and data-mining.  Learning algorithms for classifications, regression, and clustering.  Emphasis is on discriminative classification methods such as decision trees, rules, nearest neighbor, linear models, and naive Bayes.",""],"ECPS 212":["ECPS","Entrepreneurship for Scientists and Engineers","Real-world introduction to the theory and practice of entrepreneurship. Explores organizational, strategic, and financial challenges; start-up strategies; business-idea evaluation; and business-plan writing. Presentations by prestigious entrepreneurs and industry leaders.",""],"ECPS 216":["ECPS","Internet of Things Systems and Software","Internet of Things (IoT) concept, sensors and actuators, serial protocols, network and communication protocols and programming, IoT platforms, real-time performance, middleware architecture for IoT, edge and cloud support for IoT applications.",""],"ECPS 295":["ECPS","Special Topics in CPS","Studies in selected areas of CPS. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ECPS 299":["ECPS","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"ENGR 1A":["ENGR","General Chemistry for Engineers","Emphasis on solid-state chemistry. Quantum theory, atomic structure, periodic trends, chemical bonding, molecular orbitals, electronic band structure, gases, liquids, intermolecular forces, unit cells, crystal lattices, phase transformations, and electrochemistry.","AP Chemistry or SAT Subject Chemistry or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics. AP Chemistry with a minimum score of 3. SAT Subject Chemistry with a minimum score of 600. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 600. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 27. A score of 85 or higher on the Engineering Chemistry Placement Exam (fee required) is also accepted."],"ENGR 7A":["ENGR","Introduction to Engineering I","Introduction to engineering disciplines and the design process. Students enrolled in the online lecture also attend a three-hour lab on campus. Materials fee.",""],"ENGR 7B":["ENGR","Introduction to Engineering II","Introduction to engineering disciplines and the design process. Students enrolled in the online lecture also attend a three-hour lab on campus. Materials fee.","ENGR 7A"],"ENGR 30":["ENGR","Statics","Addition and resolution of forces, distributed forces, equivalent system of forces centroids, first moments, moments and products on inertia, equilibrium of rigid bodies, trusses, beams, cables.  Course may be offered online.","MATH 2D and PHYS 7C"],"ENGR 54":["ENGR","Principles of Materials Science and Engineering","Superconductors to biodegradable polymers. Structure and properties of materials, including metal, ceramics, polymers, semiconductors, composites, traditional materials. Atomic structure, bonding, defects, phase equilibria, mechanical properties, electrical, optical and magnetic properties. Introduction to materials processing and synthesis. Materials fee.","(ENGR 1A or CHEM 1A or CHEM H2A) and PHYS 7C"],"ENGR 80":["ENGR","Dynamics","Introduction to the kinematics and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. The Newton-Euler, Work\/Energy, and Impulse\/Momentum methods are explored for ascertaining the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. An engineering design problem using these fundamental principles is also undertaken.","MATH 2D and PHYS 7C"],"ENGR 92":["ENGR","Engineering and Computer Educational Laboratory","Comprehensive academic support designed primarily for underrepresented or underprepared students in Engineering, ICS, or selected areas of the physical sciences. Typical program activities: tutoring, study skills, career planning, self-esteem enhancement, library research techniques.",""],"ENGR 93":["ENGR","Public and Professional Service in Engineering","Student participation in public and professional service activities related to engineering.",""],"ENGR 98":["ENGR","Group Study ","Group study of selected topics in engineering.",""],"ENGR 100":["ENGR","Special Topics in Fabrication Safety","Hands on training in the safe use of item fabrication: metalworking, woodworking, electronics fabrication, composites, welding, adhesives, water disposal, and others. Safety certification will be granted from this course and is required for access to Engineering School fabrication facilities.",""],"ENGR 113":["ENGR","Introduction to STEM Education Research","Introduces students to education research and topics studied in STEM education. Enables students to develop research questions, participate in research projects, design and utilize research tools, and contribute to STEM education research products.",""],"ENGR 150":["ENGR","Mechanics of Structures","Introduction to mechanics of materials. Topics include stresses and strains, axial and torsional loading, bending, shear, combined loading, stress and strain transformation, failure theories, beam deflection, and buckling.","(CEE 30 or ENGR 30 or MAE 30) and MATH 3A"],"ENGR 165":["ENGR","Advanced Manufacturing","Principles in manufacturing processes. All machining requires energy: mechanical (cutting and shaping), heat energy (laser cutting), photochemical (photolithography), chemical energy (electro chemical machining and chemical vapor deposition). These methods and their fundamentals are examined.  Materials fee.",""],"ENGR 180":["ENGR","Entrepreneurship for Scientists and Engineers","Learn the theory and practice of entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship. Covers positioning an idea, establishing the value propositions and benefits case, going to market strategy, creating an execution plan, and raising funds. Concepts are applied to a real-world venture project.",""],"ENGR 189":["ENGR","Senior Project - Topics Vary","Multidisciplinary group senior project of theoretical or applied nature involving design.",""],"ENGR 190W":["ENGR","Communications in the Professional World","Upper-division technical writing course including the development of presentation skills. Effective communication with a range of audiences. Recognition of ethical and professional responsibilities for engineers.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGR 191":["ENGR","Curricular Practical Training","Practical training under an industry mentor in a technical field corresponding to students' area of interest.",""],"ENGR 195":["ENGR","Special Topics in Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ENGR 196W":["ENGR","Engineering Thesis","Preparation of final presentation and paper describing individual research in Engineering completed in one or more quarters of individual study (i.e., ENGR 199).","Completion of at least 4 units of Individual Research in Engineering. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGR H196W":["ENGR","Honors Thesis","Preparation of final presentation and paper describing individual research in Engineering. For participants in the Campuswide Honors Program.","ENGR H199. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGR 199":["ENGR","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGR 199P":["ENGR","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGR H199":["ENGR","Individual Study for Honors Students","Supervised research in Engineering for participants in the Campuswide Honors Program. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGR 200AP":["ENGR","Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship: Innovation","Teaches concepts on how to develop innovate\/disruptive ideas through actual delivery and adoption. Focuses on the critical thinking skills, the process of developing an idea into a product\/service, and teaching a framework to foster adoption of the idea and product.",""],"ENGR 200BP":["ENGR","Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship: Build","Learn how to build an executable plan to transform an idea into a product. Learn how to construct a go-to market plan, raise funds for building the product, and leverage ecosystem resources to fill in resource gaps.",""],"ENGR 200CP":["ENGR","Engineering Leadership and Entrepreneurship: Launch","Understand how to build an actual product. Learn about prototyping and basic project management skills. Learn a framework on when to pivot for course corrections. Identify how to define outcome metrics and measure progress as the product is launched.",""],"ENGR 210P":["ENGR","Capstone Project ","Students are required to complete a project that deals with a specific emphasis of their Master of Engineering concentration\/specialization.",""],"ENGR 211P":["ENGR","M","Provides students in the Master of Engineering program with information and.",""],"ENGR 265":["ENGR","Advanced Manufacturing","Principles in manufacturing processes. All machining requires energy: mechanical (cutting and shaping), heat energy (laser cutting), photochemical (photolithography), chemical energy (electro chemical machining and chemical vapor deposition). These methods and their fundamentals are examined. Materials fee.",""],"ENGR 280":["ENGR","Entrepreneurship for Scientists and Engineers","Learn the theory and practice of entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship. Covers positioning an idea, establishing the value propositions and benefits case, going to market strategy, creating an execution plan, and raising funds. Concepts are applied to a real-world venture project.",""],"ENGR 290":["ENGR","Developing Teaching Excellence","Introduces the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning (SoTL) as it applies to Engineering Education. Focuses on how teaching practice can be guided by the research literature on teaching and learning.",""],"ENGR 290P":["ENGR","M","Students go through practical training under an industry mentor in a technical field corresponding to their area of interest.",""],"ENGR 291":["ENGR","Internship","Practical training under an industry mentor in a technical field corresponding to the student's area of interest.",""],"ENGR 295":["ENGR","Special Topics in Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"ENGR 295P":["ENGR","Special Topics in Master of Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Master of Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGR 298P":["ENGR","M","Supervised independent project for Master of Engineering students under the direction of the selected faculty member.",""],"ENGR 299":["ENGR","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty.",""],"ENGR 399":["ENGR","University Teaching","University teaching with Engineering faculty.",""],"ENGLISH 8":["ENGLISH","Multicultural American Literature","Writings from at least two historically underrepresented groups in California and the United States with particular attention to historical conditions of literary production. Considers in-depth how literary works relate to racial constructions, economic conditions, and\/or social movements.",""],"ENGLISH 9":["ENGLISH","Shakespeare","Plays by William Shakespeare are used to explore the playwright's poetic gifts,  theatrical imagination, and inquiry into human relationships and the human condition.",""],"ENGLISH 10":["ENGLISH","Topics in English and American Literature","Explores the diversity of human expression manifested in selected works of literature. By engaging with substantial literary texts, students will think critically about how meaning is created and how experience is interpreted in literary language.",""],"ENGLISH 10B":["ENGLISH","Topics in English and American Literature","Linked with Writing 50. Explores the diversity of human expression manifested in selected works of literature. By engaging with substantial literary texts, students think critically about how meaning is created and how experience is interpreted in literary language.",""],"ENGLISH 11":["ENGLISH","Society, Law, and Literature","Examines how works of literature represent and influence the relation between law and society. The primary readings will be works of literature, but selections of works of law, politics, and sociology may also be assigned.",""],"ENGLISH 11C":["ENGLISH","Society, Law, and Literature","Linked with Writing 60. Explores how works of literature represent and influence the relation between law and society. The primary readings are works of literature, but selections of works of law, politics, and sociology may also be assigned.",""],"ENGLISH 12":["ENGLISH","Young Adult Fiction   ","Young adult fiction studied in historical context, including the publishing industry and mass marketing, as well as education and literacy. Primary readings will focus on young adult fiction, but works of history, advertising, and film will also be included.",""],"ENGLISH 15":["ENGLISH","Introductory Seminar in English: Topics in Literary Studies","Discussion-based seminar on a faculty-chosen topic that introduces majors and those considering a major in English to interpretive methodologies and critical frameworks that characterize the field of English studies.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH 16":["ENGLISH","The Craft of Poetry","Reading of selected texts to explore the ways in which these modes formulate experience. Students write several short analytic papers. Requires creative writing.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH 17":["ENGLISH","The Craft of Fiction","Reading of selected texts to explore the ways in which these modes formulate experience. Students write several short analytic papers. Requires creative writing.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH H80":["ENGLISH","Sanctuary: Medieval and Modern","Principles and significance of the practice of legal sanctuary in medieval English history, literature, and religion. Development of modern use of churches and other safe spaces in the American Civil Rights movement, immigrant sanctuary movements, and international asylum.",""],"ENGLISH H81":["ENGLISH","What is a Person?","Contemporary debates about personhood in law, culture, and society. Beginning with the emergence of ideas of personhood in philosophy and theology, and culminating in the study of highly contested cases: slavery, abortion law, animal rights, corporate personhood, and artificial intelligence.",""],"ENGLISH 100":["ENGLISH","Introduction to Literary Theory","Using Plato and Aristotle as points of departure, addresses a range of perspectives and problems in literary theory. To be taken by English majors in the junior year.","Three courses selected from ENGLISH 8, ENGLISH 9, ENGLISH 10, ENGLISH 11, ENGLISH 12, ENGLISH 15, ENGLISH 16, ENGLISH 17, LIT JRN 20, LIT JRN 21."],"ENGLISH 101W":["ENGLISH","Undergraduate Seminar in Critical Writing: Topics in Literary History","Each instructor identifies a topic within literary history; special attention is given to mastering the conventions of academic argument and expression. To be taken as early as possible in the junior year.","Three courses selected from ENGLISH 8, ENGLISH 9, ENGLISH 10, ENGLISH 11, ENGLISH 12, ENGLISH 15, ENGLISH 16, ENGLISH 17; or LIT JRN 20 and LIT JRN 21 and one course selected from the above list. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH 102A":["ENGLISH","Topics in Medieval and Renaissance Literature","Studies of works representative of Medieval and Renaissance literature in English, with attention to literary history, treating at a minimum more than one author and more than one genre.","Three courses selected from ENGLISH 8, ENGLISH 9, ENGLISH 10, ENGLISH 11, ENGLISH 12, ENGLISH 15, ENGLISH 16, ENGLISH 17. Or LIT JRN 20 and LIT JRN 21 and one course selected from the above list."],"ENGLISH 102B":["ENGLISH","Topics in Restoration and 18th-Century Literature    ","Studies of works representative of Restoration and 18th-century literature in English, with attention to literary history, treating at a minimum more than one author and more than one genre.","Three courses selected from ENGLISH 8, ENGLISH 9, ENGLISH 10, ENGLISH 11, ENGLISH 12, ENGLISH 15, ENGLISH 16, ENGLISH 17. Or LIT JRN 20 and LIT JRN 21 and one course selected from the above list."],"ENGLISH 102C":["ENGLISH","Topics in Romantic and 19th-Century Literature","Studies of works representative of Romantic and 19th-century literature in English, with attention to literary history, treating at a minimum more than one author and more than one genre.","Three courses selected from ENGLISH 8, ENGLISH 9, ENGLISH 10, ENGLISH 11, ENGLISH 12, ENGLISH 15, ENGLISH 16, ENGLISH 17. Or LIT JRN 20 and LIT JRN 21 and one course selected from the above list."],"ENGLISH 102D":["ENGLISH","Topics in 20th-Century Literature","Studies of works representative of 20th-century literature in English, with attention to literary history, treating at a minimum more than one author and more than one genre.","Three courses selected from ENGLISH 8, ENGLISH 9, ENGLISH 10, ENGLISH 11, ENGLISH 12, ENGLISH 15, ENGLISH 16, ENGLISH 17. Or LIT JRN 20 and LIT JRN 21 and one course selected from the above list."],"ENGLISH 103":["ENGLISH","Topics in Literature, Theory, and Criticism","A series of lectures on and discussions of announced topics in literary criticism, theory, history, genres, modes, major authors.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH 105":["ENGLISH","Multicultural Topics in Literatures in English","Focuses on ethnic or minority literatures, or treats issues related to race and cultural identity.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH 106":["ENGLISH","Advanced Seminar: Topics in English Literature   ","Capstone course. Provides intensive work on a topic within the area of literatures in English with particular attention to the theoretical, critical, or conceptual issues it raises, with the goal of producing a substantive research paper.","(ENGLISH 101W or WRITING 101W) and (ENGLISH 100 and 102A) or (ENGLISH 100 and 102B) or (ENGLISH 100 and 102C) or (ENGLISH 100 and 102D) or (ENGLISH 102A and 102B) or (ENGLISH 102A and 102C) or (ENGLISH 102A and 102D) or (ENGLISH 102B and 102C) or (ENGLISH 102C and 102D) or (ENGLISH 103 and 102A) or (ENGLISH 103 and 102B) or (ENGLISH 103 and 102C) or (ENGLISH 103 and 102D) or (ENGLISH 105 and 102A) or (ENGLISH 105 and 102B) or (ENGLISH 105 and 102C) or (ENGLISH 105 and 102D) or (ENGLISH 100 and 103) or (ENGLISH 103 and 105) or (ENGLISH 100 and 105)."],"ENGLISH 160":["ENGLISH","Topics in English Language Film and TV","Focuses on the analysis of film and\/or television traditions in the English-speaking world, from a historical, theoretical, or comparative perspective.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"ENGLISH 198":["ENGLISH","Special Topics","Directed group study of selected topics as arranged by instructor.",""],"ENGLISH 199":["ENGLISH","Independent Study","To be taken only when the materials to be studied lie outside the normal run of departmental offerings, and when the student will have no formal chance to pursue the subject. Research paper required.",""],"ENGLISH 205":["ENGLISH","Master of English Seminar","Studies in selected areas of literary history for Master of English students. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 206":["ENGLISH","Master of English Research and Writing Colloquium","Studies in selected areas. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 207":["ENGLISH","Master of English Thesis Practicum","A yearlong undertaking of original research and writing, developed in close coordination with a faculty mentor. Accordingly, the precise contents and contours vary by advisor and by project.",""],"ENGLISH 208":["ENGLISH","Master of English Thesis Workshop","Students practice the scholarly genres that they will use throughout their career as an academic. The ultimate goal is to move toward a finished piece of writing: a masters thesis.",""],"ENGLISH 210":["ENGLISH","Studies in Literary History","Studies in selected areas of literary history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 225":["ENGLISH","Studies in Literary Genres","Studies in selected areas of literary genres. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 230":["ENGLISH","Studies in Major Writers","Studies in selected areas of major writers. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 255":["ENGLISH","Graduate Workshop in Academic Publishing","Reading and critique of student-authored essays with the goal of producing a publishable essay. Instructor leads discussion, meets with students individually, and provides an introduction to appropriate venues for publication and the process of submission, peer review, and revision.",""],"ENGLISH 290":["ENGLISH","Reading and Conference","Studies in selected areas. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 291":["ENGLISH","Guided Reading Course","Studies in selected areas. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGLISH 299":["ENGLISH","Dissertation Research","A units-only course for students in the dissertation phase.",""],"ENGLISH 398":["ENGLISH","Rhetoric\/Teaching of Composition","Readings, lectures, and internship designed to prepare graduate students to teach composition. Formal instruction in rhetoric and practical work in teaching methods and grading.",""],"ENGLISH 399":["ENGLISH","University Teaching","A units-only course for students appointed as teaching assistants or associates.",""],"EHS 201":["EHS","Case Studies in Environmental Toxicology","Analysis of real problems involving toxic chemicals and the human food, air, water supplies, occupational exposures, and lifestyles. Formal problems will be considered by small groups of students and discussed by the class.","EHS 206B"],"EHS 202":["EHS","Principles of Environmental Toxicology","Introduction to basic principles of toxicology. Absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) of xenobiotics are covered and illustrated with specific examples.",""],"EHS 203":["EHS","Psychosocial Occupational Epidemiology","Importance of psychosocial work environment for workers' health and productivity has increased with changing technology, work organization, demographics, and occupation\/industry structures. This advanced occupational epidemiology course focuses on psychosocial work environment as exposures, and workers' health and productivity as outcomes.",""],"EHS 204":["EHS","Neurotoxicology","The effects of various harmful chemicals upon nervous system function. Emphasis given to the molecular events underlying neurological damage and to the relation of such processes to basic mechanisms of neurobiology.",""],"EHS 206A":["EHS","Target Organ Toxicology I","Mechanistic analysis of responses occurring in various organ systems of experimental animals and humans exposed to environmental and occupational chemicals and radiation. Review distinctive cellular and tissue structure and physiological function of the various organ systems.",""],"EHS 206B":["EHS","Target Organ Toxicology II ","Mechanistic analysis of responses occurring in various organ systems of experimental animals and humans exposed to environmental and occupational chemicals and radiation. Review of distinctive cellular and tissue structure and physiological function of the various organ systems.","PUBH 277A or EHS 206A"],"EHS 207":["EHS","Experimental Design and Interpretation of Toxicology Studies","Introduction to methods of structuring toxicology experiments and analyzing data, including experimental design, data distributions, sample sizes, hypothesis testing, linear regression, analysis of variance, multiple comparison testing, and non-parametric tests.",""],"EHS 212":["EHS","Inhalation Toxicology","The principles and practice of laboratory inhalation toxicology.  Topics include aerosols, gases, respiratory tract structure and function, lung defenses, aerosol deposition exposure techniques, characterization of exposure atmospheres, experimental designs, animal models, and regulations and guidelines.",""],"EHS 220":["EHS","Industrial Toxicology","Analysis of responsibilities toxicologists have in industry, including product safety, generating material safety, data sheets, animal testing, ecotoxicological testing, risk\/hazard communication, and assisting industrial hygienists and occupational physicians; emphasis on interdisciplinary nature of industrial toxicology and communication skills.","PUBH 277B or EHS 206B"],"EHS 264":["EHS","Introduction to Environmental Health Science","Convergence of agents (chemical, physical, biological, or psychosocial) in environment can emerge as diseases influenced by social, political, and economic factors, allowing them to become rooted in society. How these agents from various spheres come together and impact human health.",""],"EHS 269":["EHS","Air Pollution, Climate, and Health","Emission of air pollutants into the atmosphere, physical and meteorological processes that affect transport, and influence on global warming. Concepts of how and where people are most exposed, and how exposures and health effects differ in developed and developing regions.",""],"EHS 275":["EHS","Environmental Modeling and Risk Management","Surveys the general principles, basic mathematical methods, and practices of environmental modeling and human health risk assessment. Topics include advection-dispersion models, risk management, and risk perception. Students conduct an original risk assessment as a final group project.","MATH 2A and STAT 7"],"EHS 290":["EHS","Independent Study in Environmental Toxicology","With consent from a faculty member who will supervise the program, a student may receive credit for individual study in some area of toxicology, culminating in the completion of a scholarly paper on the subject.",""],"EHS 294":["EHS","Occupational Health Psychology","Introduction to psychological and social factors in the workplace that affect health and productivity. Goal is to support redesign of the workplace and social situations that can reduce stress-related illness risks, and increase humane forms of productivity and competence development.",""],"EHS 297":["EHS","Advanced Topics in Occupational Toxicology","Discussions with clinical and research faculty in environmental toxicology and occupational medicine on current toxicology problems in the workplace and critical review of current publications in the field.",""],"EHS 298":["EHS","Seminar in Environmental Health Sciences","Presentation and discussion of current research problems and issues by students, postdoctoral fellows, faculty, and guests, covering the broad research and policy areas of environmental health sciences.",""],"EHS 299":["EHS","Research Problems","Research work for the M.S. thesis or Ph.D. dissertation.",""],"EPIDEM 199":["EPIDEM","Undergraduate Research in Epidemiology","Provides disciplinary research participation. Original or existing research options provide undergraduates the opportunity for faculty\/mentor interactions including access to appropriate facilities. Medical Epidemiology research areas: Cancer, Genetic\/Molecular, Environmental, Occupational, Biostatistics, and Infectious Disease.",""],"EPIDEM 200A":["EPIDEM","Principles of Epidemiology","Fundamental principles of epidemiology, biostatistics, and epidemiological research. Topics include research methods of measuring health problems in populations, disease control and prevention in populations, how epidemiology contributes to knowledge of disease etiology, and biostatistical analysis and interpretation of epidemiologic data.",""],"EPIDEM 200B":["EPIDEM","Intermediate Epidemiology","Learn to design and conduct epidemiologic studies using common designs. Determine why bias and measurement error arise in observational studies, and how they influence effect estimates. Perform and interpret epidemiologic data analyses using statistical software.","PUBHLTH 206A. PUBHLTH 206A with a grade of B or better"],"EPIDEM 200C":["EPIDEM","Advanced Epidemiologic Methods","Advanced topics in the design and statistical analysis of epidemiologic studies. Topics include simulation methods, counter-matching and multiphase study designs, missing data, and Bayesian analysis. Published simulation studies are discussed and replicated using the R software package.","EPIDEM 200A and EPIDEM 200B. EPIDEM 200A with a grade of B or better. EPIDEM 200B with a grade of B or better"],"EPIDEM 201":["EPIDEM","Cancer Epidemiology","Concentrates on understanding how epidemiology plays a role in the search for cancer etiology, prevention, control, and treatment; gives an overview of cancer research with an appreciation of the multidisciplinary nature of the field.","EPIDEM 203 or PUBHLTH 203 or PUBH 206"],"EPIDEM 202":["EPIDEM","Genetic Epidemiology","Concentrates on the role of genetic factors in the etiology of disease in human populations with an objective of disease control and prevention and the role of interactions of genetic factors and environmental exposures in the occurrence of disease.","PUBHLTH 203 or EPIDEM 203 or PUBH 206"],"EPIDEM 204A":["EPIDEM","Biostatistics I: Introduction to Statistical Methods","Designed to help students develop an appreciation for statistician's view of the research process, emphasizing biomedical research. Instills an understanding of how statistical models are used to yield insights about data that form evidence-based understanding of the world around us.",""],"EPIDEM 204B":["EPIDEM","Biostatistics II: Intermediate Statistical Methods","Intended for graduate students in epidemiology, public health, and clinical research fields. Covers common regression-modeling techniques frequently used in biologic and medical applications.","EPIDEM 204. EPIDEM 204 with a grade of B or better"],"EPIDEM 204C":["EPIDEM","Biostatistics III: Advanced Statistical Methods","Intended for graduate students in epidemiology, public health, and related fields.  Introduces statistical methods for analyzing survival and longitudinal\/clustered data, and techniques to resolve missing data.","EPIDEM 204B. EPIDEM 204B with a grade of B or better"],"EPIDEM 205":["EPIDEM","Environmental Epidemiology","Concentrates on epidemiological approaches to the assessment of community environmental hazards; issues involved in environmental exposure estimation; interdisciplinary approaches to environmental epidemiology, including the use of biomarkers of exposures and susceptibility; epidemiological studies within the context of risk assessment.","EPIDEM 200 and EPIDEM 204"],"EPIDEM 212":["EPIDEM","Methods for Design and Implementation of Epidemiologic Research","Intended for students in epidemiology, public health, and related fields, and covers topics in subject recruitment, data collection, quality assessment and control, and sample-size estimation.","EPIDEM 200A and EPIDEM 204A. EPIDEM 200A with a grade of B or better. EPIDEM 204A with a grade of B or better"],"EPIDEM 215":["EPIDEM","Introduction to Statistical Genetics","Provides students with knowledge of the basic principles, concepts, and methods used in statistical genetic research. Topics include principles of population genetics, and statistical methods for family- and population-based studies.","Two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in statistical methods."],"EPIDEM 232":["EPIDEM","Chronic Disease Epidemiology & Prevention","Epidemiological aspects of chronic human diseases. Topics include methodologies for quantifying aspects of prevalent chronic diseases including risk factors, identification of susceptible groups, societal burdens, promising future research; and the intervention, prevention, and control of diseases in populations.",""],"EPIDEM 244":["EPIDEM","Toxic Chemicals in Environment","Industrial ecology of toxicants and their impacts on environmental quality and human health. Explores theoretical basis of toxicity thresholds and regulatory issues. Uses classic and contemporary research articles to understand the legacy of traditional toxicants, and to identify emerging threats.",""],"EPIDEM 264":["EPIDEM","Introduction to Environmental Health Science","Convergence of agents (chemical, physical, biological, or psychosocial) in environment can emerge as diseases influenced by social, political, and economic factors, allowing them to become rooted in society. How these agents from various spheres come together and impact human health.",""],"EPIDEM 269":["EPIDEM","Air Pollution, Climate, and Health","Emission of air pollutants into the atmosphere, physical and meteorological processes that affect transport, and influence on global warming. Concepts of how and where people are most exposed, and how exposures and health effects differ in developed and developing regions.",""],"EPIDEM 275":["EPIDEM","Special Topics in Epidemiology","Presents various topics and latest research in the broad field of epidemiology.",""],"EPIDEM 280":["EPIDEM","Epidemiology Research Journal Club","Research journal club is a group discussion of recent publications in epidemiology and related fields.  Students rotate as lead discussants, guided by faculty.  All attendees are expected to be familiar with the papers at the start of class.",""],"EPIDEM 282":["EPIDEM","Epidemiology Department Seminar","A forum for the presentation of recent research to epidemiology students, faculty, and other interested parties. The atmosphere is informal, yet rigorous. Speakers range from graduate students through distinguished visitors from other institutions.",""],"EPIDEM 290":["EPIDEM","Introduction to Biostatistics and Epidemiology for Medical Fellows","Prepares medical fellows and other physicians for rotations in research programs. Understanding of basic biostatistics and study design, and interdependencies between the two. Application of principles in evaluation of medical literature for guidance on patient care and public health policy.","Medical degree."],"EPIDEM 296":["EPIDEM","M","Individual research and study necessary for a graduate student to prepare and complete the thesis required for the Master of Science (M.S.) degree.","Advancement to candidacy."],"EPIDEM 297":["EPIDEM","PhD Degree Dissertation Research & Writing","Individual research and study necessary for a graduate student to prepare and complete the dissertation required for the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree.","Advancement to candidacy."],"EPIDEM 298":["EPIDEM","Directed Study in Epidemiology","Directed study with Epidemiology faculty.",""],"EPIDEM 299":["EPIDEM","Independent Study in Epidemiology","Independent research with Epidemiology faculty.",""],"EPIDEM 399":["EPIDEM","University Supervised Teaching","Limited to students with active Teaching Assistant (T.A.) appointments.",""],"EURO ST 9":["EURO ST","Topics in Europe in the Middle Ages","Explores the literature, history, and thought of the European Middle Ages. Topics may include understandings of self and community, aristocratic power and courtly life, colonialism, crusading, religious beliefs and persecution, monasticism and reform, university culture, epic literature, and Arthurian romance.",""],"EURO ST 10":["EURO ST","Topics in Historical Foundations (1500-1800)","Offers an overview of the European experience from its social, political, and cultural foundations to modern European issues and institutions in a globalized world. Topics include social, political, and cultural history up to the French Revolution.",""],"EURO ST S10":["EURO ST","Historical Foundations: Europe and the Foundations of the Modern World","Encompasses a variety of perspectives in the social sciences and the humanities involving crucial developments coming out of Europe from roughly 1500 to 1800, (the Protestant Reformation through the French Revolution), that helped shape the modern (western) world.",""],"EURO ST 11":["EURO ST","Issues and Institutions in Modern Europe (1789-1945)","Offers an overview of modern European societies in social, political, and cultural terms. Topics include shifting geopolitical borders, social movements, and various forms of cultural expression (film, art, literature) as they intersect with and shape issues and events after 1800.",""],"EURO ST S11":["EURO ST","Europe's Futures: 1755-Present","Introduces students to competing approaches from humanities and social sciences to conceptualizing the future in politics, art, and literature. From the enlightenment to today, investigates the cultural and political context of moments when new ideas emerged to secure Europe's futures.",""],"EURO ST 12":["EURO ST","What is the Origin of Language?","Teaches symbol-based logic and universal grammar in human language as tools to investigate the origin of language. Does language originate with reason? Is language inherently universal or diverse? Does it begin as something literal or figurative.",""],"EURO ST 13":["EURO ST","Topics in Contemporary Europe (1945 - Today)","Offers a perspective on contemporary politics and social and cultural life of today's Europe. Introduces students to literature, film, and social theory crises of the contemporary world as they emanated from World War II, such as nationalism and populism.",""],"EURO ST 101A":["EURO ST","European Studies Core I - Early Europe (Pre-1789)","Introduction to multidisciplinary approaches to important themes in European society, culture, art, literature, and politics; encourages students to explore intersections among disciplines. Possible themes: Concept of Europe in Renaissance, Self and Other: Europe and Islam, Hybrid Cultures in Medieval Europe.",""],"EURO ST 101B":["EURO ST","European Studies Core II: Modern Europe (Post-1789)","Multidisciplinary approaches to important themes in modern European society, culture, art, literature, and politics, encouraging students to see points of intersection among disciplines. Possible themes: Subjects, Citizens, and Representation; Europe in the World; European Revolutions in Art and Society.",""],"EURO ST 102":["EURO ST","Topics in Early European History and Culture: Pre-1789","Addresses historical and cultural events, issues, and texts (art, literature, music, political theory) from the pre-1789 period in more than one European country.",""],"EURO ST 103":["EURO ST","Topics in Modern European History and Culture: Post-1789","Addresses historical and cultural events, issues, and texts (art, literature, music, political theory) from 1789 to present in more than one European country.",""],"EURO ST 190W":["EURO ST","Senior Seminar in European Studies","Capstone research seminar. Students engage in rigorous, in-depth, interdisciplinary exploration of specific topics, periods, or themes, investigating and analyzing the intersection of material and discursive culture in different historical periods and geographical locations.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"EURO ST 199":["EURO ST","Independent Study","Directed reading and research in consultation with a faculty advisor.  Substantial written work required.",""],"EURO ST 200A":["EURO ST","Core Seminar I: Foundations of European Thought and Culture","Provides a historical, geographical, and methodological overview of foundational texts and issues in European thought and culture. Covering several historical periods between the Middle Ages and the present, students will see how ideas and institutions change over time.",""],"EURO ST 200B":["EURO ST","Core Seminar II: Theorizing Periods and Movements in European Thought and Culture","Periods and movements still form basic units for organizing European thought and theory, even as such categories are problematized. This course will allow for greater focus on a specific time period or constellation of issues around a period or movement.",""],"EURO ST 200C":["EURO ST","Core Seminar III: European Thought and Culture Beyond Europe","Studies the intersection and afterlives of European thought and culture with and in non-European contexts, the way European thought and culture has been translated and transformed, taken up and challenged, in colonial, postcolonial, and other global situations.",""],"EURO ST 201":["EURO ST","Topics in European Studies","Seminars on various topics related to European Studies.",""],"EURO ST 299":["EURO ST","Independent Research","For students to do independent research with advisors on their master's thesis or master's examination reading lists.",""],"MGMT EP 200":["MGMT EP","Thinking Strategically in the Digital Age for Executives","Focuses on the strategic and organizational challenges that a rapidly changing environment poses to the firm's management and frames them according to Merage's strategic emphasis on analytical decision making, innovation, and information technology.",""],"MGMT EP 201A":["MGMT EP","Business Analytics: Decision-Making for Executives","Methods of statistical inference, emphasizing applications to administrative and management decision problems. Topics include classical estimation, hypothesis testing, regression, correlation, analysis of variance, decision analysis, and forecasting.",""],"MGMT EP 202":["MGMT EP","Organizational Leadership for Executives","Develops a better understanding of individual and group behavior in and across organizations, and the frameworks by which to analyze and understand behavior in complex organizations. Enhances the skills required to manage collaboration and lead. Every other weekend course.",""],"MGMT EP 203A":["MGMT EP","Financial Reporting Policies for Executives","Involves the development, analysis, and interpretation of financial accounting information for external reporting purposes. Emphasis on measurement and valuation issues in decision-making problems and cases. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 203B":["MGMT EP","Managerial Accounting for Executives","Involves developing and using internal financial and non-financial information to help organizations make planning, budgeting, control, operating, and performance evaluation decisions. Every other weekend course format.","MGMT EP 203A. MGMT EP 203A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT EP 204A":["MGMT EP","Microeconomics for Executives in the Digital Age","Provides basic tools for analyzing economic decisions of consumers and firms. Topics include demand and supply analysis, production and cost theory, perfect competition, monopoly, market failures, and introductory game theory.  Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 204B":["MGMT EP","Macroeconomics for Executives","Introduces use of macroeconomic analysis to manage the business cycle for competitive advantage. \"Business cycle-sensitive\" management is explored within the context of marketing, operations management, HRM, merger and acquisition activity, and capital financing and expenditures. Every other weekend course format.","MGMT EP 204A. MGMT EP 204A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT EP 205":["MGMT EP","Marketing Leadership","Introduction to marketing. Topics include developing familiarity with fundamental marketing concepts, theories, and techniques; acquainting students with the type of decisions made by executives, including customer targeting, product, pricing, place, promotion, and research. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 207":["MGMT EP","Competing with Digital: Technology, Analytics, Business Models","Focuses on how information technology is used to create value in organizations through product, process, and strategy innovation. Aims to help managers understand the strategic role of key information technologies in managing organizations. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 208":["MGMT EP","Operational Excellence: Processes, Strategy, and Analytics","Introduction to strategic and tactical issues in production and operations management. A blend of quantitative and qualitative considerations. Topics include product planning, process design, capacity management, production planning, inventory control, just-in-time manufacturing, and quality management. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 209A":["MGMT EP","Managerial Finance for Executives","Introduces students to financial theory and concepts. Topics include time value of money, valuation of stocks and bonds, capital budgeting, portfolio theory, and capital structure choice. Every other weekend course format.","MGMT EP 201A and MGMT EP 203A and MGMT EP 204A. MGMT EP 201A with a grade of C or better. MGMT EP 203A with a grade of C or better. MGMT EP 204A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT EP 210":["MGMT EP","Strategy for Executives: Foundations and Dynamics ","Provides conceptual frameworks and techniques to analyze and develop firm strategies. Through case analysis\/discussion, helps improve strategic thinking by developing frameworks by which to assess, evaluate, and respond to different business situations. Every other weekend course format.","MGMT EP 200 and MGMT EP 202 and MGMT EP 205 and MGMT EP 209A. MGMT EP 200 with a grade of C or better. MGMT EP 202 with a grade of C or better. MGMT EP 205 with a grade of C or better. MGMT EP 209A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT EP 219":["MGMT EP","Practice of General Management for Executives","Teaches the graduating MBA how the best managers actually manage. Students develop a toolkit of proven concepts and practices that will help them succeed as managers at any level.",""],"MGMT EP 225":["MGMT EP","Negotiations For Executives","Using a combination of theory and practice via negotiation simulations, students expand their repertoire of negotiating skills and develop their ability to analyze different negotiation situations and contexts. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 290":["MGMT EP","Special Topics in Business","Studies in selected areas of business. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"MGMT EP 295A":["MGMT EP","Global Business I for Executives","Fundamentals of global strategy, economics, and financial issues. Topics include global manager's environment, global strategy, impact of national culture on business systems, strategies and practices, foreign direct investment, corporate governance, human resources, and international marketing. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 295B":["MGMT EP","Global Business II for Executives","Emphasizes and reinforces international perspectives contained in the M.B.A. curriculum by providing a week-long intensive seminar abroad in the second year. Scholars and business people from the host country instruct Executive M.B.A. students in designed class sessions and company visits.",""],"MGMT EP 296":["MGMT EP","Executive Leadership","Focuses on the conceptual, practical, and personal dimensions of executive leadership. Past and current leadership theories are addressed. Individual personal assessment and diagnosis. Every other weekend course format.",""],"MGMT EP 299":["MGMT EP","Individual Study","Individual Study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"FLM&MDA H80":["FLM&MDA","Honors Seminar: Race Sport Media","Honors seminar examining the intersection of race, sports, and media in everyday U.S. popular culture (film, TV, advertising, gaming, social media) and political culture. Materials fee.",""],"FLM&MDA 85A":["FLM&MDA","Introduction to Film and Visual Analysis","Introduces the language and techniques of visual and film analysis. Teaches students to analyze the moving image; emphasize framing, camera movement, and sound; and conveys how editing produces meaning, reproduces historical ideologies, fosters or disrupts narrative, and cues spectators.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 85B":["FLM&MDA","Broadcast Media History and Analysis","History of broadcast media from the radio era to the present day, including social, political, institutional, and audience analysis as well as methods of visual and aural analysis of these media.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement. "],"FLM&MDA 85C":["FLM&MDA","New Media and Digital Technologies","The study of digital media, computer-mediated communication, and Internet cultures, from historical and theoretical perspectives.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 101A":["FLM&MDA","History of Film I: The Silent Era","The aesthetic, industrial, and socio-historical developments of cinema in the U.S. and internationally from its invention to the adoption of synchronous sound. Includes early exhibition, developments in narrative and editing, the formation of the studio system, and avant-garde film movements. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 101B":["FLM&MDA","History of Film II: The Studio Era","The aesthetic, industrial, and socio-historical developments of cinema in the U.S. and internationally from the 1930s through the 1960s. Includes the Hollywood studio system, propaganda films, Italian neorealism, post-war Japanese cinema, and the French New Wave. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. "],"FLM&MDA 101C":["FLM&MDA","History of Film III: The Contemporary Era","The aesthetic, industrial, and socio-historical developments of cinema in the U.S. and internationally from the late 1960s to the present. Includes New Hollywood and independent U.S. films, ethnic cinemas, postcolonial cinemas, East-Asian new waves, and digital filmmaking. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 85A and FLM&MDA 101B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 110":["FLM&MDA","Film and Media Theory","Survey of major directions in film and media theory. Various theories of mass culture, realism, auteurism, semiotics, feminism, cultural studies, and theories of other media, with an emphasis on developing the student's ability to analyze and articulate a theoretical argument. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 85A and FLM&MDA 85B and FLM&MDA 85C and (FLM&MDA 101A or FLM&MDA 101B or FLM&MDA 101C). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 111":["FLM&MDA","Film and Media Theory and Practice","Seminar focusing on issues in film and media production and editing. Reading and exercises to understand aspects of film and media production (montage, sound, film movement, directing, and mise en scene), and how ideology works in tandem with style.","FLM&MDA 85A and FLM&MDA 85B and FLM&MDA 85C and FLM&MDA 120A and (FLM&MDA 101A or FLM&MDA 101B or FLM&MDA 101C). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 112":["FLM&MDA","Genre Study        ","Critical approaches to the serial productions we call \"genre\" films such as westerns, weepies, musicals, horror films, and others; televisual genres, such as sitcoms, drama, comedy, news, docudrama, police; Internet categories, such as chat-rooms, listservs, Web pages.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 113":["FLM&MDA","Narrative\/Image     ","What relations do sound, image, and story assume in film, television, video, and Internet narratives? In what ways do these media interact with and borrow from each other and traditional story-telling media? How have the new media explored non-narrative strategies.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 114":["FLM&MDA","Film, Media, and the Arts","A synthetic entity, film draws on both established and popular arts. Looks at visual media's exchanges with \"high\" and \"low\" culture, exploring its relation to areas such as photography, music, painting, and architecture.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 115":["FLM&MDA","Authorship          ","Theoretical and analytical discussions of visual media authorship, focusing on case studies of directors, producers, scriptwriters, and film, video, and digital artists.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 117A":["FLM&MDA","Introduction to Screenwriting","Introduction to the technique and format of the screenplay, with a particular focus on its three act structural elements: coverage, treatment, and 60 beat outline. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 117B":["FLM&MDA","Intermediate Screenwriting","Exercises in the development of screenplays, with emphasis on formal and structural considerations of character development. Students work with the hero structure and other character development methodologies, such as method acting. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 117A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 117C":["FLM&MDA","Screenwriting Workshop","Continuation and intensification of work initiated in 117B. Students complete a full-length screenplay. Concentrates on both practical and technical concerns, addressing pragmatic and aesthetic questions in intensive small-group discussions. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 117B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 118A":["FLM&MDA","Writing Television I","Introduction to the technique and format of the television screenplay. Focuses on character, storytelling, structure, and scene development; culminating in a one-hour drama series treatment and first act of the pilot.","FLM&MDA 85B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 118B":["FLM&MDA","Writing Television II","Intermediate-level screenwriting class exploring the one-hour television drama format. Students write and workshop an original pilot, continuing work started in 118A, and finish a complete draft of the pilot script.","FLM&MDA 118A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 120A":["FLM&MDA","Basic Production","Introduction to the basic apparatus of video\/film production. The elementary essentials of production, including the use of camera and lenses, lighting, editing, and sound. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 120B":["FLM&MDA","Intermediate Production","Students work on individual and group projects, utilizing skills and insights introduced in Film and Media Studies 120A. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 120A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 120C":["FLM&MDA","Production Workshop","As film and video are collaborative media, students form production groups and ultimately produce final 10-15-minute film\/video projects. Materials fee.","FLM&MDA 120B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 130":["FLM&MDA","Multicultural Topics in the Media","Investigation of media representations of gender, race, and sexuality in the United States. Topics include media images of and by one or more minority groups in the United States, including African Americans, Asian Americans, Chicano\/Latinos, Native Americans, gays, and lesbians.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 139W":["FLM&MDA","Writing on Film and Media","Writing on cinema, television, and\/or digital culture, emphasizing identification of reliable sources, close readings, addressing academic, professional, and\/or popular audiences. Requires at least 4,000 words of assigned composition.","FLM&MDA 85A or FLM&MDA 85B or FLM&MDA 85C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 143":["FLM&MDA","Critical Theory of Television","Introduction to critical, theoretical, and scholarly understandings and analyses of television, which offer in-depth analyses of television programming, audience reception practices, and industry strategies of address.","FLM&MDA 85B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 144":["FLM&MDA","Studies in New Media","Advanced analysis of the technologies, texts, theories, and cultures of computers, video games, networks, or platforms.","FLM&MDA 85C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 145":["FLM&MDA","Popular Culture and Media","Considers the forms, ideologies, consumption, and marketing of popular entertainment and technologies. May focus on cultural studies methods, transnational approaches, and synergy between media.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 146":["FLM&MDA","Sound Studies","Focuses on the production, theories, and meanings of sound recordings, music, and\/or audio technologies. Topics may include the cultures of popular music and audio devices, music television, and theories of film sound.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 150":["FLM&MDA","Audiences and Reception","Explores the dynamics of address, interpretation, and appropriation between film and media texts and their viewers. Topics may include reception studies, fandom, audience-defined modes of production, demographics, spectatorial pleasure, and historical approaches to audiences.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 151":["FLM&MDA","Documentary and Experimental Film and Media","Examines nonfiction and\/or experimental cinemas and media, such as documentary, the historical avant-garde, video art, and activist media. Students consider the specific aesthetics and ideologies of forms distinct from narrative feature films.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 160":["FLM&MDA","National\/Regional Cinemas and Media","National schools, period styles, or cultural movements beyond U.S. cinema, as defined by national borders or by geographic regions, such as Latin America. May be approached from a comparative perspective.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 161":["FLM&MDA","Global\/Transnational Cinemas and Media","Analyzes the multinational production, circulation, and reception of film and media texts beyond singular national borders or specific geographic regions. Topics may include transnational co-productions, exports, and diasporic reception.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 162":["FLM&MDA","US Cinema         ","Explores the modes of production and distribution, aesthetics, and contexts that have shaped cinema in the United States. Topics may include classical Hollywood, American independent cinema, or periods such as 1970s cinema.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 185":["FLM&MDA","Television and New Media","Advanced seminar focusing on special topics in television and new media. Past examples have included courses on media marketing and brand identity; television and sound; game theory; and other issues related to popular culture, broadcast media, and new media technologies.","FLM&MDA 85B or FLM&MDA 85C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 190":["FLM&MDA","Special Topics in Film and Modern Media","Special issues concerned with film and media history, theory, and criticism.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 191":["FLM&MDA","Special Topics in Critical Practice","Integrates critical analysis, historical, and theoretical methods with creative projects to illuminate film and media production and industries. May include courses in adaptation, writing television, media activism, writing the short film, performance studies, and movie title sequences.","FLM&MDA 85A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 192":["FLM&MDA","Special Topics in Advanced Film Production","Focuses on special topics in production. Culminates in final 6-10-minute group film projects. Topics include producing, acting, and\/or directing in short films, experimental films, documentaries, television, and other media.","FLM&MDA 120A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 193":["FLM&MDA","Special Topics in Advanced Screenwriting","Focuses on special topics in screenwriting. Topics include adaptation, alternative screenwriting, writing the first feature, act two construction, and rewriting.","FLM&MDA 117A or FLM&MDA 118A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 194":["FLM&MDA","Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies","Interdisciplinary approaches to special issues concerned with film and media history, theory, and criticism.",""],"FLM&MDA 197":["FLM&MDA","Professional Internship","Professional internship in the film, broadcast, and\/or digital media industries designed to provide students with closely supervised professional experience to enhance their understanding of media from industrial, historical, and critical perspectives. Journal and final report required.",""],"FLM&MDA 198":["FLM&MDA","Creative Project","Creative project in screenwriting, filmmaking, videomaking, or Web or internet design intended to provide advanced production and creative writing training beyond the Film and Media Studies 117A-B-C or 120A-B-C series. Final project required.","(FLM&MDA 85A and FLM&MDA 117A and FLM&MDA 117B and FLM&MDA 117C) or (FLM&MDA 120A and FLM&MDA 120B and FLM&MDA 120C). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. Recommended: FLM&MDA 101A."],"FLM&MDA 199":["FLM&MDA","Directed Research","Directed reading and research under supervision of a faculty member in topic areas not covered by regular course offerings. Final research paper required.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FLM&MDA 285A":["FLM&MDA","Film Studies: Theory and Methods","Examines canonical texts and explores current directions in film studies.",""],"FLM&MDA 285B":["FLM&MDA","Television Studies: Theory and Methods","Examines canonical texts and explores current directions in television studies.",""],"FLM&MDA 285C":["FLM&MDA","Digital Media and Game Studies: Theory and Methods","Examines canonical texts and explores current directions in digital media and game studies.",""],"FLM&MDA 286A":["FLM&MDA","Film and Media Studies Historiography","Approaches to film and media studies historiography.",""],"FLM&MDA 286B":["FLM&MDA","Media\/Power\/Culture"," Approaches to the study of power and culture in relation to film and media.",""],"FLM&MDA 286C":["FLM&MDA","Topics in Critical Approaches to Film and Media Studies","Offers a focused examination of a key film and media studies methodology.",""],"FLM&MDA 287":["FLM&MDA","Practicum in Pedagogy","Students learn best practices for teaching film and media studies.",""],"FLM&MDA 288A":["FLM&MDA","Practicum in Professionalization I","Students learn best practices for film and media studies professionalization.",""],"FLM&MDA 288B":["FLM&MDA","Practicum in Professionalization II","Students learn best practices for film and media studies professionalization.",""],"FLM&MDA 288C":["FLM&MDA","Practicum in Professionalization III","Students learn best practices for film and media studies professionalization.",""],"FLM&MDA 291":["FLM&MDA","Graduate Seminar in Film and Media Studies","Studies in selected areas of film and media studies. Topics vary each quarter.",""],"FLM&MDA 292":["FLM&MDA","Graduate Seminar in Film and Media Critical Practice","Integrates critical analysis, historical, and\/or theoretical methods with creative projects. Topics vary each quarter.",""],"FLM&MDA 295":["FLM&MDA","Directed Reading","Directed reading on a specific topic agreed upon by student and instructor.",""],"FLM&MDA 296":["FLM&MDA","Reading for the Preliminary Examination","Directed reading in preparation for the preliminary exam.","FLM&MDA 285A and FLM&MDA 285B and FLM&MDA 285C and FLM&MDA 286A and FLM&MDA 286B and FLM&MDA 286C"],"FLM&MDA 297":["FLM&MDA","Prospectus Research","Research and writing of the dissertation prospectus.",""],"FLM&MDA 298":["FLM&MDA","Prospectus Writing Practicum","Offered spring quarter each year and taught in a workshop format. Assists students with the preparation and revision of the dissertation prospectus.","FLM&MDA 285A and FLM&MDA 285B and FLM&MDA 285C and FLM&MDA 286A and FLM&MDA 286B and FLM&MDA 286C"],"FLM&MDA 299":["FLM&MDA","Dissertation Research","Research and writing of the dissertation.","FLM&MDA 298"],"FLM&MDA 399":["FLM&MDA","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"FIN 203A":["FIN","Financial Reporting for Management","Financial reporting is concerned with the preparation and public dissemination of financial reports designed to reflect corporate performance and financial condition. Provides a base level of knowledge needed by corporate executives to understand and discuss corporate financial statements.",""],"FIN 209B":["FIN","Investments Management","Introduction to how securities are traded and how their prices are determined. Discussion of different market organizations, including some recently developed online financial markets. Study of pricing models, including Capital Asset, factor models, and Arbitrage Pricing Theory.",""],"FIN 210":["FIN","Foundations of Finance","Examines foundations of finance. Teaches tools such as time value of money, capital budgeting techniques, cash flow analysis. Examines foundations of investment management and theory\/empirical evidence related to portfolio theory, market efficiency, asset pricing models, factor models, option pricing theory.",""],"FIN 211":["FIN","Master of Finance ProSeminar","Provides students in the Merage School Master of Finance program with information and practical skills for success in the program and for business career planning.",""],"FIN 240":["FIN","Financial Research Methodology","Provides an introduction into the computational research methods necessary in modern finance, such as optimization, simulation methods, and finite difference and finite element methods. Some applications include quadratic programming for portfolio selection and option pricing.",""],"FIN 241":["FIN","Risk Management","Examines modern techniques for managing financial risks, including market, credit, liquidity, and operational risks. Covers measurement techniques for different financial risks and instruments. Discusses how risk measurement tools can be used for management of the risk\/return profile of financial institutions.","FIN 249. FIN 249 with a grade of C or better"],"FIN 242":["FIN","Portfolio Management","Provides a working understanding of the themes and concepts of portfolio management. Covers several disciplines, such as investment valuation, investment decision-making, investing styles, asset allocation, monitoring and re-balancing portfolios, risk management strategies, performance evaluation, and attribution analysis.",""],"FIN 243":["FIN","Bonds and Fixed Income","Addresses concepts covering a broad spectrum of debt securities with emphasis on qualitative and quantitative analysis of fixed income securities in many areas, including corporate (credit) debt, MBS\/ABS, structured debt, and credit derivatives.",""],"FIN 244":["FIN","Multinational Finance","Examines the history of the world's foreign exchange markets, the macroeconomics of foreign exchange, major parity conditions, hedging of currency exposure and international investment. Gives students a basic understanding of foreign exchange market.",""],"FIN 245":["FIN","FinTech","Provides working knowledge of the role of IT-enabled innovation in financial markets to help students acquire an understanding of broad economic issues that are of wide applicability in many areas of FinTech. Both qualitative analysis and quantitative applications are explored.",""],"FIN 246F":["FIN","Seminar in Management of the Real Estate Enterprise","Capstone seminar. Looks beyond \"The Deal\" to management of the real estate enterprise itself. Explores aspects of decision-making focused upon strategic objectives: goal setting, legal\/tax structures, public vs. closely-held entities, corporate ethics, capital structure, managing growth, diversification, technology. Guest professionals.",""],"FIN 246G":["FIN","Applied Real Estate Security Analysis and Portfolio Management","Provides an understanding of the public real estate investment trust (REIT) market and its place in modern investment strategies, presents methods for analyzing and valuing companies, and introduces basic concepts for constructing and managing a real estate investment portfolio.",""],"FIN 247":["FIN","Cases in Corporate Financial Management","Case-based course in corporate finance. Introduces advanced analytical tools and techniques for value-based financial management in a broad range of corporate settings, including financial forecasting, mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, ownership and control, corporate restructuring, and financial distress.",""],"FIN 248":["FIN","Corporate Valuation","Expands on concepts covered in introductory finance. Combines lectures and cases designed to confront students with real-world problems to enhance their understanding of the value and limitations of finance theory. Focuses on the value of firms\/projects in diverse settings.","FIN 210. FIN 210 with a grade of C or better"],"FIN 249":["FIN","Derivatives","Covers major derivative instruments that are widely used for hedging, including forward, futures, swaps and options, speculation, and arbitrage. Focuses on understanding the instruments, how to use and price them, basic risk management principles, and how to implement investment strategies.",""],"FIN 250":["FIN","Mergers and Acquisitions","Focuses on mastering mergers and acquisitions concepts and techniques that will enable participants to practically apply them in related fields such as investment banking, consulting, and corporate development. Studies drivers of success in M&A with heavy attention on transactional review.",""],"FIN 252":["FIN","Wealth Management","Provides overview of considerations needed to connect singular functional areas that comprise personal and business wealth management, including basic and advanced estate planning, investment management, tax management, life\/liability and property\/casualty insurance, medical and long-term care coverage, retirement and philanthropy considerations.",""],"FIN 253":["FIN","Venture Capital and Private Equity","Overview of venture capital and private equity, which constitute the \"alternative\" asset class (as opposed to conventional investments). Many start-up and entrepreneurial firms require substantial capital, and venture capital and private equity organizations finance these high-risk but potentially high-reward companies.",""],"FIN 254":["FIN","Advanced Derivatives","Describes the scientific evidence about where misvaluation come from, how investors can trade profitably to exploit market inefficiency, how corporate managers should make financing and investment decisions in an inefficient market, and how managers can correct their own biases.","FIN 249. FIN 249 with a grade of C or better"],"FIN 255":["FIN","Finance Internship","Provides students with opportunities to apply knowledge obtained from classroom theory through actual practical work experiences. Also provides knowledge of career opportunities, understanding of finance in business environments, and preparation for the finance profession.",""],"FIN 290":["FIN","Special Topics in Finance","Studies in selected areas of finance. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"FIN 296":["FIN","Master of Finance Capstone","Students work in teams on an applied finance project associated with their area of focus to demonstrate knowledge and expertise. The project can involve experiential learning, collaboration with a faculty member, or association with an internship.",""],"FIN 299":["FIN","Individual Study","Individual study under the direction of a select faculty member.",""],"FRENCH 1A":["FRENCH","Fundamentals of French","First quarter of first-year French in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.",""],"FRENCH 1AB":["FRENCH","Intensive Fundamentals of French","Intensive first half of first-year French. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to read, write, and speak. Students develop an awareness of and sensibility to French and Francophone life and culture through reading, viewing, and discussion.",""],"FRENCH 1ABSP":["FRENCH","Accelerated Fundamentals of French for Spanish Speakers","Accelerated first half of first-year French for Hispanophone students. Teaches conceptualizing in French while learning to read, write, and speak using knowledge of Spanish. Develops awareness of and sensibility to French and Francophone life and culture through reading, viewing, discussing.","Two years of high school Spanish, one semester of college Spanish, or heritage speaker of Spanish. "],"FRENCH 1B":["FRENCH","Fundamentals of French","First quarter of first-year French in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 1A. FRENCH 1A with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 1BC":["FRENCH","Intensive Fundamentals of French","Intensive second half of first-year French. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to read, write, and speak. Students develop an awareness of and sensibility to French and Francophone life and culture through reading, viewing, and discussion.","FRENCH 1AB or FRENCH 1B or FRENCH S1AB. FRENCH 1AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1B with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into FRENCH 1BC is also accepted."],"FRENCH 1BCSP":["FRENCH","Accelerated Fundamentals of French for Spanish Speakers","Accelerated second half of first-year French for Hispanophone students. Teaches conceptualizing in French while learning to read, write, and speak using knowledge of Spanish. Develops awareness of and sensibility to French and Francophone life and culture through reading, viewing, discussing.","FRENCH 1ABSP or FRENCH 1AB or FRENCH S1AB or FRENCH 1B. FRENCH 1ABSP with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S1AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1B with a grade of C or better. Two years of high school Spanish, one semester of college Spanish, or heritage speaker of Spanish. "],"FRENCH 1C":["FRENCH","Fundamentals of French","First quarter of first-year French in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 1B. FRENCH 1B with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH S1AB":["FRENCH","Intensive Fundamentals of French","First half of first-year French in an intensified form. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.",""],"FRENCH S1BC":["FRENCH","Intensive Fundamentals of French","Second half of first-year French in an intensified form. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH S1AB or FRENCH 1B or FRENCH 1AB or FRENCH 1ABSP. FRENCH S1AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1B with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1ABSP with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 2A":["FRENCH","Intermediate French","Second-year French in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 1C or FRENCH 1BC or FRENCH S1BC or FRENCH 1BCSP. FRENCH 1C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S1BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1BCSP with a grade of C or better. Placement into FRENCH 2A is also accepted."],"FRENCH 2AB":["FRENCH","Intensive Intermediate French ","Intensive first half of second-year French. Texts and films of contemporary literary or social interest provide the focus for more advanced conversation, reading, and composition. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 1C or FRENCH 1BC or FRENCH S1BC. FRENCH 1C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S1BC with a grade of C or better. Prior high school or college French is recommended. Placement into French 2AB is also accepted."],"FRENCH 2B":["FRENCH","Intermediate French","Second-year French in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 2A. FRENCH 2A with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 2BC":["FRENCH","Intensive Intermediate French ","Intensive second half of second-year French. Texts and films of contemporary literary or social interest provide the focus for more advanced conversation, reading, and composition. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH S2AB or FRENCH 2AB. FRENCH S2AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2AB with a grade of C or better. Prior high school or college French is recommended. Placement into French 2BC is also accepted."],"FRENCH 2C":["FRENCH","Intermediate French","Second-year French in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 2B. FRENCH 2B with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH S2AB":["FRENCH","Intermediate French","First half\/second half of second-year French in an intensified form. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH 1C or FRENCH 1BC or FRENCH S1BC. FRENCH 1C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 1BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into FRENCH S2AB is also accepted."],"FRENCH S2BC":["FRENCH","Intermediate French","First half\/second half of second-year French in an intensified form. Students are taught to conceptualize in French as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in French.","FRENCH S2AB or FRENCH 2B. FRENCH S2AB with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2B with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 10":["FRENCH","French Peer Tutoring","Tutoring Program in which advanced French students provide assistance to students at a lower level. One hour of tutoring per week.",""],"FRENCH 50":["FRENCH","Topics in French Culture and the Modern World","Introductory course for non-majors. Focuses on France's role in the modern world and its cultural connections to Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Europe, and the Americas. Taught in English.",""],"FRENCH 97":["FRENCH","Fundamentals of French (with Emphasis on Reading)","Designed primarily for students interested in acquiring a solid reading knowledge of French, and to facilitate the understanding and translating of French texts dealing with a variety of disciplines.",""],"FRENCH 101A":["FRENCH","Introduction to 19th-Century French Literature","Fiction, nonfiction, drama, and poetry of the 19th century studied in relationship to a specific literary or historical problem.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH S2BC"],"FRENCH 101B":["FRENCH","Introduction to 18th-Century French Literature","Literature and philosophy of the 18th century studied in relationship to a specific literary or historical problem.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH S2BC"],"FRENCH 101C":["FRENCH","Introduction to 20th-Century French Literature","Literatures of the French-speaking world studied in relationship to a specific literary or historical problem.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH S2BC"],"FRENCH 102A":["FRENCH","Grammar and Composition","Review of grammar taught in FRENCH 2A-B-C. Students gain facility in writing French and increase reading comprehension. Short texts and films are introduced to generate substantive discussion, and multiple short writing exercises are assigned to solidify skills. Formerly FRENCH 60.","r corequisite: FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 102B":["FRENCH","Topics in Issues in French and Francophone Culture","Investigation of an issue of cultural significance in the francophone world through historical documents, literary works, and newspaper articles. Supplemented with films and\/or other elements of popular culture. Multiple short writing assignments to solidify writing skills. Formerly FRENCH 61.","r corequisite: FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 102C":["FRENCH","Translation","Introduction to the theory and practice of translation from French to English and English to French. Many opportunities provided to improve skills in writing and comprehension. Formerly FRENCH 62.","r corequisite: FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 102D":["FRENCH","Topics in the Work World in French","A view into the world of work in French. Areas of study include international relations; French administration; and tensions between management and workers. Attention given to vocabulary and grammar of professional interactions in French. Formerly FRENCH 63.","r corequisite: FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 102E":["FRENCH","Advanced French Language and Style","Intended for advanced students who wish to improve their expressive capabilities in French. Review of more nuanced grammar points. Emphasis placed on rhetoric, syntax, and precision. Advanced readings increase comprehension. Formerly FRENCH 64.","r corequisite: FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 116":["FRENCH","Topics in 16th-Century French Literature","Examines the diverse literature of the Renaissance and the Age of Exploration.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 117":["FRENCH","Topics in 17th-Century French Literature","Examines the age of drama and other vibrant forms in French literature of the period.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 118":["FRENCH","Topics in 18th-Century French Literature","Examines the literature and philosophy of the Enlightenment, the Ancient Regime, Classicism, and\/or Revolution.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 119":["FRENCH","Topics in 19th-Century French Literature","Focuses on the literature of an era that experienced many modernist transformations.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 120":["FRENCH","Topics in 20th-Century French and Francophone Literature","A study of modern and contemporary literature and culture.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 127":["FRENCH","Topics in Francophone Literature and Culture","Literature and cultures of the francophone world.",""],"FRENCH 139W":["FRENCH","Literature and Society","In English. Readings of masterpieces of French literature in their social, political, and historical contexts. Requires at least 4,000 words of assigned composition based on French works. Several essays required.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"FRENCH 140":["FRENCH","Topics in French Literary Genre","Examines the development and transformation of a single genre, such as the poem or the novel.","FRENCH 2C or FRENCH 2BC or FRENCH S2BC. FRENCH 2C with a grade of C or better. FRENCH 2BC with a grade of C or better. FRENCH S2BC with a grade of C or better"],"FRENCH 150":["FRENCH","Topics in French Literature and Culture","Study of a theme, movement, or problem crucial to understanding French Literature and Culture.",""],"FRENCH 160":["FRENCH","French Cinema","Study of a period, movement, or theme in French or Francophone cinema.",""],"FRENCH 170":["FRENCH","Topics in History and Literature","Examines the dialogue between historical events and literary texts.",""],"FRENCH 171":["FRENCH","Politics and Literature","Examines the role played by politics and ethics in French literature, film, and culture.",""],"FRENCH 180":["FRENCH","Topics in Theory and Criticism","Advanced study of theoretical and critical texts.",""],"FRENCH 199":["FRENCH","Special Studies in French","A project proposal is prepared by the student and approved by the faculty member who directs the project. Procedure must be completed by the end of the first week of classes.",""],"FRENCH 216":["FRENCH","Studies in Renaissance Literature","Advanced study of a topic in the Renaissance period.",""],"FRENCH 217":["FRENCH","Studies in Seventeenth-Century Literature","Advanced study of a topic in the 17th century.",""],"FRENCH 218":["FRENCH","Studies in Eighteenth-Century Literature","Advanced study of a topic in the 18th century.",""],"FRENCH 219":["FRENCH","Studies in Nineteenth-Century Literature","Advanced study of a topic in the 19th century.",""],"FRENCH 220":["FRENCH","Studies in Twentieth-Century Literature","Advanced study of a topic in the 20th and 21st century.",""],"FRENCH 225":["FRENCH","Francophone Literature and Culture","Studies in different francophone literatures and cultures (of Canada, the Caribbean, West and North Africa, and Southeast Asia).",""],"FRENCH 231":["FRENCH","Studies in Fiction  ","Examines the art of fiction.",""],"FRENCH 232":["FRENCH","Studies in Nonfictional Prose","Examines non-fictional genres such as the essay and the memoir.",""],"FRENCH 233":["FRENCH","Studies in Poetry and Poetics","Examines the genre of poetry and theories of poetry.",""],"FRENCH 240":["FRENCH","Studies on a Major Writer","Focused study of one author.",""],"FRENCH 250":["FRENCH","Studies in Theory and Criticism","Advanced study of a topic in theory and\/or criticism.",""],"FRENCH 254":["FRENCH","History and Literature","Advanced study of literary works in their historical context.",""],"FRENCH 272":["FRENCH","Cultural Studies    ","Examines the theoretical paradigm of cultural studies.",""],"FRENCH 290":["FRENCH","Research in French Language and Literature","A project proposal is prepared by the student and approved by the faculty member who directs the project. Procedure must be completed by the end of the first week of classes.  Limit: Once for M.A. candidates; twice for Ph.D. candidates.",""],"FRENCH 299":["FRENCH","Dissertation Research","For graduate students writing a dissertation with a faculty member in French.",""],"FRENCH 399":["FRENCH","University Teaching","For graduate students completing a course on foreign language pedagogy.",""],"MGMT FE 200":["MGMT FE","Thinking Strategically in the Digital Age for Managers","Focuses on the strategic and organizational challenges that a rapidly changing environment poses to the firm's management and frames them according to Merage's strategic emphasis on analytical decision making, innovation, and information technology.",""],"MGMT FE 201A":["MGMT FE","Business Analytics: Decision-Making for Managers ","Methods of statistical inference, emphasizing applications to administrative and management decision problems. Topics include classical estimation, hypothesis testing, regression, correlation, analysis of variance, decision analysis, and forecasting. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 202":["MGMT FE","Organizational Leadership for Managers","Develops a better understanding of individual and group behavior in and across organizations; the frameworks by which to analyze and understand behavior in complex organizations; and enhances the skills required to manage collaboration and lead. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 203A":["MGMT FE","Financial Reporting for Managers","Involves the development, analysis, and interpretation of financial accounting information for external reporting purposes. Emphasis on measurement and valuation issues in decision-making problems and cases. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 203B":["MGMT FE","Driving Profitability Through Managerial Accounting","Teaches skills for making vital strategic and tactical decisions (e.g., outsourcing; adding\/dropping product lines), to maximize profitability while managing risk. Also covers managerial tools (e.g., budgeting, cost-volume-profit analysis) to drive strategy implementation and incentivize employees. Taught in an evening\/weekend format.","MGMT FE 203A or MGMTMBA 203A. MGMT FE 203A with a grade of C or better. MGMTMBA 203A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT FE 204A":["MGMT FE","Microeconomics for Managers in the Digital Age","Provides basic tools for analyzing economic decisions, the determinants and consequences of market structure and market failure. Topics include demand and supply analysis, production and cost theory, perfect competition, monopoly, and introductory game theory. Evening and weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 204B":["MGMT FE","Macroeconomics for Managers","Introduces use of macroeconomic analysis to manage the business cycle for competitive advantage. \"Business cycle-sensitive\" management is explored within the context of marketing, operations management, HRM, merger and acquisition activity, and capital financing and expenditures. Evening and weekend course format.","MGMT FE 204A or MGMTMBA 204A"],"MGMT FE 205":["MGMT FE","Marketing Management","Introduction to marketing. Develops familiarity with fundamental concepts, theories, and techniques in marketing and acquaints students with the type of decisions made by marketing managers including customer targeting, product, pricing, placement, promotion, and research. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 207":["MGMT FE","Competing with Digital","Focuses on the technological and managerial issues surrounding the development and use of IT in organizations. Examines how technology can be used to execute an organization's business strategy and to enable new, innovative business strategies. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 208":["MGMT FE","Operational Excellence: Processes, Principles, and Analytics","Introduction to strategic and tactical issues in production and operations management. Blend of quantitative and qualitative considerations. Topics include product planning, process design, capacity management, production planning, inventory control, distribution management, just-in-time manufacturing, quality management. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 209A":["MGMT FE","Finance for Managers","Introduces students to financial theory and concepts. Topics include time value of money, valuation of stocks and bonds, capital budgeting, portfolio theory, and capital structure choice. Evening or weekend course format.","MGMT FE 201A and MGMT FE 203A and MGMT FE 204A"],"MGMT FE 209B":["MGMT FE","Investments for Managers","Foundations of investment management. Theory and empirical evidence related to portfolio theory, market efficiency, and valuation models for equities, bonds, and options. Emphasis on practical applications, including optimal investment strategies. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 210":["MGMT FE","Strategy for Managers: Foundations and Dynamics ","Provides conceptual frameworks and techniques to analyze and develop firm strategies. Through case analysis and discussion, helps improve strategic thinking by developing frameworks by which to assess, evaluate, and respond to different business situations. Evening or weekend course format.","MGMT FE 200 and MGMT FE 202 and MGMT FE 205 and MGMT FE 209A"],"MGMT FE 211":["MGMT FE","Networks, Platforms, and Ecosystems ","Focuses on unique strategic issues raised by multi-sided platform businesses that facilitate interaction among different parties. Combining economic theory and case examples to unpack subtle factors making multi-sided businesses different. From value propositions to pricing strategies to design decisions.",""],"MGMT FE 212":["MGMT FE","Corporate Strategy","Examines how firms should assemble resources in-house, ally with partners, or acquire firms to grow and thrive. Learn the tools necessary to develop and evaluate a corporate strategy and to become an effective strategist, consultant, or analyst.",""],"MGMT FE 214":["MGMT FE","Entrepreneurship","A project course in which student teams develop a business plan to launch a new venture. Drafts of sections of the plan are due throughout the course. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 215":["MGMT FE","Strategy in a Digital Age","Focuses on applying unchanging basic principles of strategy, economics, and organization to digital technologies. Studies historical and contemporary competitive situations to work out key underlying digital mechanisms that shape competition over time.",""],"MGMT FE 217":["MGMT FE","Competitive Intelligence for Managers","Focuses on how to design a competitive intelligence program, which is a core foundation upon which competitive strategies and execution tactics are developed, assessed, and modified. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 219":["MGMT FE","Practice of General Management","Designed to teach the graduating M.B.A. students how the best managers actually manage. Students will develop a toolkit of proven concepts and practices that will help them succeed as managers at any level.",""],"MGMT FE 220":["MGMT FE","Organizational Change in a Digital World for Managers","Focuses on the implementation of change. Identifies the features of successful changes in organizations of varying sizes and configurations, with an emphasis on the reasons why individuals resist or embrace change. Evening or weekend course format.","MGMT FE 202 or MGMTMBA 202"],"MGMT FE 222":["MGMT FE","Performance Management in 21st Century Organizations ","The key to sustained competitive advantage in a 21st century organization. Performance management is all about aligning employee attitudes and behaviors with firm goals and performance.",""],"MGMT FE 225":["MGMT FE","Negotiations For Managers","Using a combination of theory and practice via negotiation simulations, students expand their repertoire of negotiating skills and develop their ability to analyze different negotiation situations and contexts. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 227":["MGMT FE","Global Negotiations","Emphasizes economic, political, social, and cultural environments of international business negotiations. Topics include self-assessment\/analysis, environmental analysis, international team building, negotiation processes and strategies, resources, skills, pre-negotiation preparations, agreements, and post-contract negotiations. Specific emphasis will be placed on cross-cultural problem-solving.",""],"MGMT FE 231A":["MGMT FE","Financial Statement Analysis and Valuation for Managers I","Develops skills essential to using financial statements for business analysis by examining financial information quality, profitability and risk analysis, earnings management, revenue recognition, asset recognition and valuation, and how financial reporting is related to the business environment and managerial incentives.","MGMT FE 203A or MGMTMBA 203A. MGMT FE 203A with a grade of C or better. MGMTMBA 203A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT FE 231B":["MGMT FE","Financial Statement Analysis and Valuation for Managers II","Focuses on the financial statement analysis of liabilities and stockholders' equity. Topics include forecasting financial statements, earnings-based valuation models, accounting analysis of mergers and acquisitions, leases, bankruptcy prediction, and derivatives. Evening or weekend course format.","MGMT FE 203A or MGMTMBA 203A. MGMT FE 203A with a grade of C or better. MGMTMBA 203A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMT FE 233":["MGMT FE","Wealth Management for Managers","Aims to integrate behavioral finance, psychology, personal financial planning, risk management, and asset management to provide students with the theoretical and practical knowledge to effectively build and manage wealth.",""],"MGMT FE 245":["MGMT FE","FinTech and the Digital Economy","Provides working knowledge of the role of IT-enabled innovation in financial markets to help students acquire an understanding of broad economic issues that are of wide applicability in many areas of FinTech. Both qualitative analysis and quantitative applications are explored.",""],"MGMT FE 246A":["MGMT FE","Introduction to the Real Estate Process","Introductory survey course providing an understanding of the real estate market. Topics include real estate economics, valuation, feasibility, investment, tax considerations, financing, development, and corporate real estate asset management. Hands-on lectures, with guest lectures by real estate professionals.",""],"MGMT FE 246B":["MGMT FE","International Real Estate","Survey of international real estate investment opportunities. Topics include size and breadth; opportunities and challenges (tax treatment, currency\/political\/market risks, transaction costs, lack of local knowledge); ownership vehicles (REITs, joint ventures, equity funds, etc.). Global cast of guest lecturers supplements lectures.",""],"MGMT FE 246C":["MGMT FE","Real Estate Capital Markets","Understanding the four sectors of real estate capital markets: pubic debt, private debt, public equity, private equity; estate investment, key players, investment types drive capital solutions, underwriting strategies, and vehicle structuring, debt versus equity source characteristics and implications for returns.",""],"MGMT FE 246D":["MGMT FE","The Real Estate Development Process","Nature and composition of development community and development process. Emphasis on role of conflicting interests, values and goals, and market uncertainty. Special attention paid to deal structuring and risk management. Lectures, guest lecturers, team projects evaluating actual development project.",""],"MGMT FE 246F":["MGMT FE","Seminar in Management of the Real Estate Enterprise","Beyond \"The Deal\" to management of the real estate enterprise itself. Explores aspects of decision-making focused upon strategic objectives: goal setting, legal\/tax structures, family-owned firms, going public, corporate ethics, capital structure, diversification, core competencies, technology. Guest professionals.",""],"MGMT FE 247":["MGMT FE","Venture Capital and Private Equity for Managers","Geared to students who are seeking a career in finance and\/or in working with venture capital firms, private equity\/buyout firms, investment banks, commercial lenders, mezzanine fund investors, corporate finance, and entrepreneurial firms.",""],"MGMT FE 251A":["MGMT FE","Marketing Research for Managers","Qualitative and quantitative marketing techniques that generate customer insights. Discusses problem formulation, data collection, statistical analyses, formulating managerial recommendations, implementation, and how research is used by companies. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 255":["MGMT FE","Business to Business Selling and Sales Management","Sales is the interpersonal process where the needs of the buyer are uncovered and satisfied, to the long-term benefit of both parties. Students explore sales force management and personal selling in a dynamic, digital environment.",""],"MGMT FE 257":["MGMT FE","Marketing on the Internet for Managers","Examines the Internet's impact on traditional methods of marketing. Discusses how to capitalize on and increase the Internet's utility as a tool that can increase marketing effectiveness, efficiency, and competitiveness. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 259":["MGMT FE","Strategic Brand Management for Managers","Addresses important branding decisions faced by organizations. A computer simulation allows students hands-on experience in making decisions about their brand and seeing the results of those decisions. Evening or weekend course format.","MGMT FE 205 or MGMTMBA 205"],"MGMT FE 273":["MGMT FE","Machine Learning Analytics for Managers","Introduces methods to mine data repositories for business intelligence to facilitate analytical decision-making. Topics include clustering for market segmentation; association rules to discover relationships between different purchase decisions; Naive-Bayes classification techniques for decision-making using decision-trees. Evening or weekend format.",""],"MGMT FE 278":["MGMT FE","Data and Programming for Analytics","Challenges and teaches students to handle data that come in a variety of forms and sizes. Guides students through the whole data management process, from initial data acquisition to final data analysis.",""],"MGMT FE 281":["MGMT FE","Analytical Decision Models for Managers","An introduction of analytics tools for decision making. Topics include linear and non-linear optimization and simulation models. Excel Solver is used as the optimization tool and Risk Solver Platform is used as the simulation tool. Evening or weekend.",""],"MGMT FE 283":["MGMT FE","Decision Analysis for Managers","Models of preferences and uncertainty; exercises in creative problem solving. Assessment and use of preference models for private, public, and not-for-profit decision making. Assessment and use of subjective probabilities in decision making. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 285":["MGMT FE","Supply Chain Analytics for Managers","Introduces students to fundamental analytics tools to manage business uncertainties, meet customer needs, and drive business disruptions through supply chain innovations. Example topics include forecasting, inventory management, capacity planning, profit analysis, supply chain coordination, risk management, simulation-based performance analysis.",""],"MGMT FE 288":["MGMT FE","Predictive Analytics","Deals with predicting entities, such as demand for a product or service (forecasting) and predicting membership of known groups (classification). Blends methodologies of forecasting and data mining and focuses on the application of these methods to managerial problems and decision-making.",""],"MGMT FE 290":["MGMT FE","Special Topics in Business","Studies in selected areas of Business. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"MGMT FE 292":["MGMT FE","Business Law for Managers","Detailed study from a business viewpoint of contract theories, assignments, delegation of duties, third-party beneficiary contracts, defenses to consensual contracts, types of conditions, methods of excusing conditions, remedies, and types of damages. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 293":["MGMT FE","Information, Communication, and Coordination: Practicum for Analyzing Organizations","Use of contextual inquiry and ethnographic methods to assess real world contexts.  Exploring culture, power, physical layout, and the role of artifacts in information flow, communication practices, and coordination through qualitative fieldwork in an organization.",""],"MGMT FE 294":["MGMT FE","Edge for Managers","Explores the crucial roles of external forces: globalization, technology, shifting demographics - as transformative catalysts for change - opening markets, erasing boundaries, and transforming industries. Prepares future business leaders to innovate and successfully compete.",""],"MGMT FE 295A":["MGMT FE","Introduction to Global Business for Managers","Fundamentals of global strategy, economics, and financial issues. Topics include global manager's environment, global strategy, impact of national culture on business systems, strategies and practices, foreign direct investment, corporate governance, human resources, and international marketing. Evening and weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 295B":["MGMT FE","Global Business for Managers","Emphasizes and reinforces international perspectives contained in the FEMBA curriculum by providing a week-long intensive seminar abroad in the second year.  Scholars and business people from the host country instruct FEMBA students in specially designed class sessions and company visits.","MGMT FE 295A. MGMT FE 295A with a grade of B or better"],"MGMT FE 296":["MGMT FE","Executive Leadership","Provides perspectives on leadership. Helps students answer three questions: Where am I currently as a leader? What tools can I use to improve my leadership? What is my plan for the future as a leader? Evening or weekend course format.",""],"MGMT FE 298":["MGMT FE","Merage Consulting Projects for Managers","Provides students the opportunity to put into practice concepts, skills, and tools acquired in other parts of the MBA program. Seminars augment internship experiences with analyses of relevant administrative issues.",""],"MGMT FE 299":["MGMT FE","Individual Directed Study","Individual study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"GDIM 25":["GDIM","Game Design Fundamentals","Explore the fundamentals of game design through the design and play of simple analog game systems. Students explore the principles and usage of game design elements through hands-on projects emphasizing iteration and playtesting in a creative game design community.",""],"GDIM 27":["GDIM","Intermediate Game Design","More advanced study of game design principles and systems design through the study of complex problems and play experiences. Topics include economies, game balancing, level design, prototyping, stat design, playtesting, and design documentation.","GDIM 25"],"GDIM 31":["GDIM","Introduction to Programming for Games","Learn the fundamentals of programming for games through hands-on exercises in programming languages like C#, Processing, Visual Studio, .NET, and the Unity engine. Students build several small game prototypes. Materials fee.",""],"GDIM 32":["GDIM","Intermediate Programming for Games","Students advance their skills with game programming, building on existing skills developed in Introduction to Programming for Games. Hands-on projects emphasize general procedural and problem-solving skills, as well as furthering knowledge of C# and the Unity3D\/Unreal game engines.","GDIM 31"],"GDIM 33":["GDIM","Coding In Game Engines","Introduces students to visual scripting tools in game engines in the context of game design, level, design, and experience design. Students gain fluency in one or more visual scripting languages.","GDIM 32. GDIM 32 with a grade of C or better"],"GDIM 41":["GDIM","Games and Society","The study and critical analysis of computer games as art objects, cultural artifacts, gateways to virtual worlds, educational aids, and tools for persuasion and social change. Emphasis on understanding games in their historical and cultural context.  Materials fee.",""],"GDIM 49":["GDIM","Special Topics in Games and Society","Studies in selected areas of games and their relationship to society. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","GDIM 41 or ICS 60"],"GDIM 51":["GDIM","Visual Design Fundamentals","The principles, tools, and techniques of visual design for playable media. How do shape, line, color, composition, typography, and time work together to communicate information, emotion, and meaning in interfaces, game worlds, and stories. Materials fee.",""],"GDIM 53":["GDIM","Roleplaying and Improvisational Play","How do practices of performance, role-playing, and improvisation overlap with contemporary practices of game design? Connecting these forms of play to their contemporary uses within role-playing games, virtual worlds, and playable media more broadly.",""],"GDIM 55":["GDIM","Storytelling for Interactive Media","The history, theory, and practice of interactive storytelling for games and other interactive media. Starting with the emergence of electronic literature and hypertext narratives, students encounter and experience a compressed history of this emergent form through play, analysis, and design. Materials fee.",""],"GDIM 61":["GDIM","Introduction to Game Development","Introduction to the design and development of games. Includes core concepts in software development, team management, leadership, and project management.",""],"GDIM 127":["GDIM","Professional Studio\/Practicum","Professional skills are essential in today's competitive job market. Covers interview techniques, resume building, professional networking, personal brand development, online portfolios, and presentation.","GDIM 161. GDIM 161 with a grade of C or better"],"GDIM 129":["GDIM","Special Topics in Advanced Game Design","Studies in selected areas of advanced game design. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","GDIM 27. GDIM 27 with a grade of C or better"],"GDIM 131":["GDIM","Data Analytics for Games and Interactive Media","Survey of analysis methods for understanding player data, including playtesting, telemetry data collection and analysis, metrics visualization, and its application in development and business.","GDIM 27 and GDIM 33"],"GDIM 139":["GDIM","Special Topics in Game Programming","Studies in selected areas of game programming. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","GDIM 33"],"GDIM 149":["GDIM","Special Topics in Games and Society","Studies in selected areas of games and their relationship to society. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","GDIM 41"],"GDIM 161":["GDIM","Multiplayer Game Project","Design and develop a multiplayer game using Unity or similar engine, with a focus on learning to work in a development team, writing design documents, working with platform features and limitations, developing engaging mechanics, playtesting, and post-mortems.","GDIM 27 and GDIM 33 and GDIM 51 and GDIM 61. GDIM 27 with a grade of C or better. GDIM 33 with a grade of C or better"],"GDIM 163":["GDIM","Solo Game Project","Students work on their own to design, develop, and playtest a small game from scratch, taking into consideration psychology, narrative, platform features and limitations, marketing, computer science capabilities, human-computer interface principles, industry trends, aesthetic judgment, and other factors.","GDIM 27 and GDIM 33 and GDIM 51 and GDIM 61. GDIM 27 with a grade of C or better. GDIM 33 with a grade of C or better"],"GDIM 165":["GDIM","Games Entrepreneurship","As the audiences for games continue to diversify so have the channels for game publishing and monetization. Explore connections between the business and creative side of games in context like esports, education, indie game development, mobile apps, and AAA studios.",""],"GDIM 167A":["GDIM","Capstone Game Project I","Students work in teams to design and implement a unique game or interactive experience. Emphasis on sound, art, and level design, building a community, production values, full utilization of hardware and software platform, and current industry trends.","ICS 168 or (GDIM 131 and GDIM 161). GDIM 161 with a grade of C or better"],"GDIM 167B":["GDIM","Capstone Game Project II","Students continue work in teams to design and implement a unique game or interactive experience. Emphasis on sound, art, and level design, building a community, production values, full utilization of hardware and software platform, and current industry trends.","GDIM 167A or ICS 169A. GDIM 167A with a grade of C or better. ICS 169A with a grade of C or better. In Progress grade for GDIM 167A or ICS 169A also accepted."],"GEN&SEX 20":["GEN&SEX","Introduction to Queer Studies","Study of sexuality from the perspective of lesbian, gay, queer, transgender scholarship spanning humanities, social sciences, and arts.",""],"GEN&SEX 50A":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Feminism in Everyday Life","What is gender? Why does studying it matter? Explores how feminism has understood not only gender as a category of social analysis, but how gender structures personal identities, family, citizenship, work and leisure, social policy, sexuality, and language.",""],"GEN&SEX 50B":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Power","From workplace to home to schools to prisons, how are societal institutions and politics \"gendered\"? Examines power and inequalities around gender, race, class, and sexuality in national and transnational contexts.",""],"GEN&SEX 50C":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Popular Culture","An investigation of gender, race, and sexuality in film, TV, video, music, and advertising, with attention to the ways that popular culture shapes understandings of technology, national identities, leisure and work, historical memory, international communication, and multicultural representation.",""],"GEN&SEX 60A":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Science","Examines science from a variety of feminist viewpoints in order to explore how science influences everyday life.  Special attention is given to the ways science shapes our understanding of gender, race, and sexuality.",""],"GEN&SEX 60B":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Law","Introduction to the relationship between gender, race, sexuality, and the law.  Critical thinking about how law defines citizenship, political representation, and democracy, focusing on the history of legal reform undertaken in the name of women as a social group.",""],"GEN&SEX 60C":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Religion","Introduces the topic of religion in a feminist context by performing cross-cultural exploration of gender, authority, and faith in various traditions. Study includes (but is not limited to) writings of contemporary Jewish, Christian, and Muslim feminists.",""],"GEN&SEX 100A":["GEN&SEX","Feminism and Social Change","Explores feminist modes of knowledge production in relation to histories and activist practices of various social movements. Examines the kinds of information, research, ideas, theories, and concepts that underlie feminist cultural analysis and social movement organizing.",""],"GEN&SEX 100B":["GEN&SEX","Feminist Theory","Introduction to historical traditions in theory and various conceptual frameworks informing scholarship in gender studies, sexuality studies, and women's studies as a field of critical inquiry.",""],"GEN&SEX 100C":["GEN&SEX","Feminist Cultural Studies","Investigation of the theories and methods that inform the feminist study of culture.  Focuses on the interpretation of the visual arts and literature created by, and predominately for, women.",""],"GEN&SEX 100D":["GEN&SEX","Queer Knowledges","Explores the emergence of historical elaboration of non-normative sexual identities, practices, and communities; focuses on medical, legal, literary, aesthetic, scientific, and religious notions about homosexuality and appropriations and subversions of these notions by queer people.",""],"GEN&SEX 110A":["GEN&SEX","Gender, State, and Nation","Examination of gender and sexuality in relation to the production of identities created through participation in state and nation. Examines complexity of relationship between feminism and nationalism, feminism and the state.",""],"GEN&SEX 110B":["GEN&SEX","Money, Sex, and Power","Examination of gender and sexuality in relation to the emergence of the modern world, modernity, and capitalism; commodification, circulation, and transnational exchanges relating to race, gender, class, sexuality, religion, and nationality.",""],"GEN&SEX 110D":["GEN&SEX","The Politics of Health and Medicine","Focuses on cultural and political-economic analysis and representations of disease both within the U.S. and globally.",""],"GEN&SEX 120A":["GEN&SEX","Histories of Sexuality","Examines the historical production of non-normative sexual and gender identities, bodies, practices, and communities. Explores how past formations inform and shape the present and future.",""],"GEN&SEX 120B":["GEN&SEX","Image Problems","Examination of scholarly approaches to gender stereotypes and politics of representation as they present possibilities for critical analysis and produce problems and limitations; how powerful ideas of gender intersect with other forms of social differentiation such as race and class.",""],"GEN&SEX 120C":["GEN&SEX","Practices of Embodiment","Explores how science, medicine, and law have shaped the understanding of differentiated bodies; examines shifting norms and ideals about producing, shaping, adorning, and dressing gendered bodies across diverse historical, cultural, social, economic, and spatial contexts.",""],"GEN&SEX 139":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender Studies","Various topics in gender studies. Encompasses issues of gender, culture, race and class, including issues of sexualities and social justice.",""],"GEN&SEX 155":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender and Sexuality Studies","Designed to provide students with an opportunity to conduct advanced work in Gender and Sexuality Studies.",""],"GEN&SEX 157":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Queer Studies","Explores issues in queer studies from one or more of the following perspectives:  theoretical, historical, legal, economic, political, sociological, and representation in the arts.",""],"GEN&SEX 165F":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Technology","Using a variety of disciplinary methods, examines how various technological processes and products produce culturally complex meanings associated with gender and technology.",""],"GEN&SEX 167A":["GEN&SEX","Militarism and Gender","Examination of feminist approaches to militarism, war, and political violence; drawing on representations of women as both victims of and participants in military violence; effects of militarism on formations of gender; effects of military industrial complex on nationalism and identity.",""],"GEN&SEX 170":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, Literature, and Language","Topics cover issues in language and literature which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 171":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and History","Topics cover issues in history which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 171A":["GEN&SEX","Sex and Conquest in Latin America","Competing ideas of masculinity and femininity, sexual violence, sexual identities, and gendered hierarchies informed how the Spanish engaged in military and religious domination of Mexican and Andean communities, as well as the forms of native resistance throughout colonial Latin America.",""],"GEN&SEX 172":["GEN&SEX","Gender and Ethnicity: Chicana\/Latina Feminisms in the US","Focuses on the Latina Feminist Group and testimonios to examine the historical development of Chicana\/Latinx feminist thought and practice. Draws from interdisciplinary scholarship to survey the diversity of contemporary Chicana\/Latinx feminisms through an intersectionality lens.",""],"GEN&SEX 174":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and the Arts","Topics cover issues in the arts which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 175":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and the Media","Topics cover issues in the media which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 180":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and Anthropology","Topics cover issues in Anthropology which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 181":["GEN&SEX","Topics in  Gender, Feminism, and Cognitive Psychology","Topics cover issues in cognitive psychology which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 182":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism and Economics","Topics cover issues in economics which relate to women and gender or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 183":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and Sociology","Topics cover issues in sociology which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 184":["GEN&SEX","Topics in  Gender, Feminism, and Political Science","Topics cover issues in political science which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 185":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and Social Sciences","Topics cover issues in social sciences which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 187":["GEN&SEX"," Topics in Gender, Feminism, and Social Ecology","Topics cover issues in social ecology which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 188":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and Science","Topics cover issues in science which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 189":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Gender, Feminism, and Interdisciplinary Studies","Topics cover issues in interdisciplinary studies which relate to women or gender, or which are taught from a feminist methodological perspective.",""],"GEN&SEX 190":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Sexualities Studies","Topics cover issues in the humanities, social sciences, sciences, and arts that relate to critical inquiry of sexualities.",""],"GEN&SEX 197":["GEN&SEX","Senior Seminar in Gender and Sexuality Studies","Students read advanced scholarship in Gender and Sexuality Studies and complete a major seminar paper.","Satisfactory completion of the Upper-Division Writing requirement."],"GEN&SEX 199":["GEN&SEX","Independent Study   ","Directed reading and research in consultation with a faculty member. Substantial written work required.  Includes independent study, involving 3-12 hours a week.",""],"GEN&SEX 200A":["GEN&SEX","Feminist Knowledge and Social Change","Provides a broad and introductory overview of Women's Studies and feminist knowledge, including key concepts, theoretical frameworks, disciplinary approaches and methods, and critical debates that have shaped the field.",""],"GEN&SEX 200B":["GEN&SEX","Problems in Feminist Research","Colloquium on analytic approaches to interdisciplinary feminist research in Women's Studies and exploration of how feminist knowledges are produced in different academic disciplines.",""],"GEN&SEX 201":["GEN&SEX","Special Topics in Feminist Studies","Seminars on various topics in feminist studies.",""],"GEN&SEX 210A":["GEN&SEX","Topics in Graduate Feminist Theory","In-depth introduction to various theoretical frameworks that have and continue to inform scholarship in Women's Studies including (but not limited to) identity, representation, and political economy.",""],"GEN&SEX 290":["GEN&SEX","Directed Research","Directed graduate study\/research in Gender and Sexuality Studies.",""],"GEN&SEX 399":["GEN&SEX","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"GERMAN 1A":["GERMAN","Fundamentals of German","Emphasizes the development of meaningful communicative skills in German for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. With a learner-centered approach, the courses help students develop speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.",""],"GERMAN 1AB":["GERMAN","Intensive German Fundamentals ","First half of first-year German in a time-intensive form. Development of meaningful communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. Learner-centered approach develops speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.  Materials fee.","Placement into GERMAN 1AB."],"GERMAN 1B":["GERMAN","Fundamentals of German","Emphasizes the development of meaningful communicative skills in German for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. With a learner-centered approach,  students develop speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.","GERMAN 1A. GERMAN 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN 1B is also accepted."],"GERMAN 1BC":["GERMAN","Intensive German Fundamentals","Second half of first-year German in a time-intensive form. Development of meaningful communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. Learner-centered approach develops speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge. Materials fee.","GERMAN 1AB or GERMAN 1B or GERMAN S1AB. GERMAN 1AB with a grade of C or better. GERMAN 1B with a grade of C or better. GERMAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN 1BC is also accepted."],"GERMAN 1C":["GERMAN","Fundamentals of German","Emphasizes the development of meaningful communicative skills in German for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. With a learner-centered approach, students develop speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.","GERMAN 1B. GERMAN 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN 1C is also accepted. "],"GERMAN S1AB":["GERMAN","Fundamentals of German","First half of first-year German in a time-intensive form. Development of meaningful communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. Learner-centered approach develops speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.",""],"GERMAN S1BC":["GERMAN","Fundamentals of German","Second half of first-year German in a time-intensive form. Development of meaningful communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and beginning study of German. Learner-centered approach develops speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.","GERMAN 1AB or GERMAN 1B or GERMAN S1AB. GERMAN 1AB with a grade of C or better. GERMAN 1B with a grade of C or better. GERMAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN S1BC is also accepted."],"GERMAN 2A":["GERMAN","Intermediate German","Emphasizes communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and intermediate study of German. With a learner-centered approach, helps students develop reading, writing, speaking, listening, grammatical, and cultural skills and knowledge. First-year grammar is reviewed and expanded.","GERMAN 1BC or GERMAN 1C or GERMAN S1BC. GERMAN 1BC with a grade of C or better. GERMAN 1C with a grade of C or better. GERMAN S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN 2A is also accepted."],"GERMAN 2B":["GERMAN","Intermediate German","Emphasizes communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and intermediate study of German. With a learner-centered approach, helps students develop reading, writing, speaking, listening, grammatical, and cultural skills and knowledge. First-year grammar is reviewed and expanded.","GERMAN 2A. GERMAN 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN 2B is also accepted."],"GERMAN 2C":["GERMAN","Intermediate German","Emphasizes communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with German speakers and intermediate study of German. With a learner-centered approach, helps students develop reading, writing, speaking, listening, grammatical, and cultural skills and knowledge. First-year grammar is reviewed and expanded.","GERMAN 2B. GERMAN 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into GERMAN 2C is also accepted."],"GERMAN 53":["GERMAN","Advanced Conversation","Includes reading of political and cultural material. Conducted in German.","r corequisite: GERMAN 2C"],"GERMAN 97":["GERMAN","Fundamentals of German (with Emphasis on Reading)","Primarily for students interested in acquiring a solid reading knowledge of German. Facilitates comprehension and translation of texts in various disciplines. Does not serve as prerequisite for any higher-level German courses or fulfill any undergraduate foreign language requirement.",""],"GERMAN 101":["GERMAN","Topics in Introduction to German Literature and Culture","Sample interpretations of texts in their cultural and historical contexts. Introduction to critical language in German.","r corequisite: GERMAN 2C. GERMAN 2C with a grade of C or better"],"GERMAN 102":["GERMAN","Topics in German Culture and Society","Interdisciplinary introduction to German culture from the perspective of its aesthetic, social, and political aspects. Methodological problems arising from an analysis of culture in its historical context.","r corequisite: GERMAN 2C. GERMAN 2C with a grade of C or better"],"GERMAN 103":["GERMAN","Topics in German Film","Introduction to the history and interpretation of German film within its cultural and social contexts. Enhances German grammar knowledge and vocabulary and develops sophisticated speaking, writing, and reading skills.","r corequisite: GERMAN 2C. GERMAN 2C with a grade of C or better"],"GERMAN 104":["GERMAN","Topics in German Linguistics","Introduces German or other Germanic-language linguistic, sociolinguistic, or ethnography-of-communication topics. Taught in German.","r corequisite: GERMAN 2C. GERMAN 2C with a grade of C or better"],"GERMAN 105":["GERMAN","German for Professions ","Explores the structure of German business practices, including in scientific fields and engineering, while developing verbal and written skills important for professional life in Germany. Taught in German.","r corequisite: GERMAN 2C. GERMAN 2C with a grade of C or better"],"GERMAN 115":["GERMAN","Topics in Advanced German for Business and Economics","Explores the structure of the German economy and business practices while developing advanced verbal and written skills important for professional life in Germany. Taught in German.","r corequisite: GERMAN 101 or GERMAN 102 or GERMAN 103 or GERMAN 104 or GERMAN 105"],"GERMAN 120":["GERMAN","Topics in 20th Century German Literature and Culture","Individual authors such as Thomas Mann, Brecht, and Kafka, or topics addressing questions of genre and\/or social-literary problems.","r corequisite: GERMAN 101 or GERMAN 102 or GERMAN 103 or GERMAN 104 or GERMAN 105"],"GERMAN 140W":["GERMAN","Topics in Literary Theory and Criticism","In English. Theoretical dimensions of literary criticism and the German philosophical tradition. Topics have included Marxism, Freudian thought, German Idealist aesthetics, Historicism, twentieth-century hermeneutics, Frankfurt School, and Rezeptionsaesthetik.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"GERMAN 150":["GERMAN","German Literature and Culture in Translation","In English. Major works in Germanic literature and culture in context.",""],"GERMAN 160":["GERMAN","German Cinema","Historical, theoretical, and comparative perspectives on German cinema.",""],"GERMAN 160W":["GERMAN","German Cinema","Historical, theoretical, and comparative perspectives on German cinema.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"GERMAN 170":["GERMAN","Topics in German Linguistics","Explores linguistic, sociolinguistic, or ethnography-of-communication topics of German or other Germanic languages (Swedish, Icelandic, Yiddish, and others). Taught in English.",""],"GERMAN 170W":["GERMAN","Topics in German Linguistics","Explores linguistic, sociolinguistic, or ethnography-of-communication topics of German or other Germanic languages (Swedish, Icelandic, Yiddish, and others). Taught in English.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"GERMAN 197":["GERMAN","German Internship    ","In this internship course, students will engage in professional practice (e.g., Engineering, Business Administration, government) in a German setting and thereby increase their knowledge of German language and culture in a setting beyond the academic classroom.","GERMAN 2C"],"GERMAN 199":["GERMAN","Independent Study","Independent research with German faculty.",""],"GERMAN 200":["GERMAN","Literary Criticism   ","Topics in literary criticism.",""],"GERMAN 210":["GERMAN","Literary Theory      ","Topics in literary theory.",""],"GERMAN 220":["GERMAN","Selected Topics in German Linguistics ","Topics in German linguistics.",""],"GERMAN 230":["GERMAN","Literary and Cultural History","Topics in literary and cultural history.",""],"GERMAN 290":["GERMAN","Independent Study","Counted toward course requirements for the M.A. or Ph.D. A term paper or project is required.",""],"GERMAN 298":["GERMAN","Independent Directed Reading","For students preparing for doctoral examination.",""],"GERMAN 299":["GERMAN","Dissertation Research","For students who have been admitted to doctoral candidacy.",""],"GERMAN 399":["GERMAN","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"GLBLCLT 103A":["GLBLCLT","Global Cultures I    ","Introduction to the processes by which economies, cultural practices, national entities, groups, individuals, and personal identities have undergone globalization. General background and methodological tools for understanding problems and processes of globalization.",""],"GLBLCLT 103B":["GLBLCLT","Global Cultures II   ","Introduction to the processes by which economies, cultural practices, national entities, groups, individuals, and personal identities have undergone globalization. Explores how globalization has manifested itself in specific topics, periods, or societies.",""],"GLBLCLT 105":["GLBLCLT","Language Origins: Evolution, Genetics, and the Brain","Examines how human language(s) may have originated. Studies pertinent techniques (reconstruction) and addresses related questions, including is our language faculty inborn (i.e., genetically encoded)? Can brain imaging and population genetics research help to unlock this mystery of human evolution?.",""],"GLBLCLT 191":["GLBLCLT","Senior Seminar:Topics in Global Cultures","Students explore a topic(s) concerning processes and\/or problems of globalization from an interdisciplinary perspective and build on their critical and analytical skills when investigating cultural and other phenomena that cut across national borders. Research assignments, class presentations, final seminar paper.",""],"GLBLCLT 199":["GLBLCLT","Independent Study","Directed reading and research in consultation with a faculty advisor. Substantial written work required.",""],"GLBL ME 60A":["GLBL ME","Humanities and Arts: Problems and Methods for Global Middle East Studies","Introduces students to the broad set of humanities and arts approaches to studying the Middle East as a global zone of cultural, political, and economic interaction.",""],"GLBL ME 60B":["GLBL ME","Social Sciences: Problems and Methods for Global Middle East Studies","Introduces students to the broad set of social sciences approaches to studying the Middle East as a global zone of cultural, political, and economic interaction.",""],"GLBL ME 60C":["GLBL ME","Social Ecology and Sciences: Problems and Methods for Global Middle East Studies","Introduces students to the broad set of approaches to studying the Middle East as a global zone of cultural, political, and economic interaction, focusing on the disciplines related to Social Ecology.",""],"GLBL ME 100W":["GLBL ME"," Research and Writing for Global Middle East Studies","Research and writing course for Global Middle East Studies majors. The primary focus is to refine the skills necessary for students to engage in independent research and writing in Global Middle East Studies.","r corequisite: GLBL ME 60A or GLBL ME 60B or GLBL ME 60C. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"GREEK 1A":["GREEK","Classical and Biblical Greek","Elements of Classical Greek grammar, syntax, and vocabulary.",""],"GREEK 1B":["GREEK","Classical and Biblical Greek","Elements of Classical Greek grammar, syntax, and vocabulary.","GREEK 1A. GREEK 1A with a grade of C or better"],"GREEK 1C":["GREEK","Classical and Biblical Greek","Introduction to reading texts.","GREEK 1B. GREEK 1B with a grade of C or better"],"GREEK 99":["GREEK","Special Studies in Greek","Lower-division level independent research with Greek faculty.",""],"GREEK 100":["GREEK","Topics in  Attic Greek","Selected readings in Attic Greek prose and poetry. Authors may include Xenophon, Lysias, Antiphon, Euripides, and others. Selections from prose and poetry will be read each quarter. Grammar and syntax review included.","GREEK 1C. GREEK 1C with a grade of C or better. Placement into GREEK 100 is also accepted."],"GREEK 103":["GREEK","Seminar in Greek Prose","Specialized and focused study of a particular Greek prose author or topic.","GREEK 100"],"GREEK 104":["GREEK","Seminar in Greek Poetry","Specialized and focused study of a particular topic or author of Greek poetry.","GREEK 100"],"GREEK 198":["GREEK","Directed Group Study","Special topics in Greek culture and civilization through directed reading and research.",""],"GREEK 199":["GREEK","Independent Studies in Greek","Independent research with Greek faculty.",""],"HEBREW 1A":["HEBREW","Fundamentals of Hebrew","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Hebrew. May focus on Biblical Hebrew and\/or modern Hebrew. Students learn the writing system and basics of grammar via latest pedagogical materials. Topics in Jewish culture are also included.","Placement into HEBREW 1A is also accepted."],"HEBREW 10A":["HEBREW","Hebrew Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. HEBREW 10A is for language mentors.",""],"HEBREW 10B":["HEBREW","Hebrew Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. HEBREW 10B is for language mentors.",""],"HEBREW 50":["HEBREW","Jewish and Israeli Culture","Examination of subjects relevant to the culture of Israel and Judaism in their historical and modern day contexts through the study of film, literature, religious texts, artistic representations, etc.",""],"HEBREW 199":["HEBREW","Independent Study","Research paper required.",""],"HISTORY 5":["HISTORY","Truth, Lies, and History: The Uses of the Past","Focuses on how struggles over the meaning of historical events have shaped and continue to shape our understandings of the world. Through guest lectures from history faculty, students explore debates about the meaning of the past.",""],"HISTORY 10":["HISTORY","The Holocaust","Introduction to the history of European Jewish communities before the Holocaust; the origins of Nazi antisemitism; the implementation of the \"Final Solution\"; Jewish resistance to the Nazis; and attempts in film and literature to represent the Holocaust since 1945.",""],"HISTORY 11":["HISTORY","Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity Since WWII","Investigates instances of genocide since 1945 (including Cambodia, Bosnia, Rwanda, and others); explores the history behind these mass murders; considers why people kill, how victims survive, and questions whether international agreements are enough to prevent crimes against humanity.",""],"HISTORY 12":["HISTORY","Introductory Topics in History ","Introduces methods and premises of historical study. Topics include introductions to cultural, political, economic, social, and religious history.",""],"HISTORY 15A":["HISTORY","Native American History","Native American history in North America, emphasizing Indigenous perspectives and creative adaptations to changing historical circumstances. Topics may include sovereignty, settler colonialism, treaties, decolonization, Indigeneity; cultural, economic, religious, environmental practices and experiences; and intersections of U.S. and Native histories.",""],"HISTORY 15C":["HISTORY","Asian American Histories","Examines and compares diverse experiences of major Asian American groups since the mid-nineteenth century. Topics include origins of emigration; the formation and transformation of community; gender and family life; changing roles of Asian Americans in American society. Formerly ASIANAM 60A.",""],"HISTORY 15D":["HISTORY","History of Sexuality in the US ","Explores intertwined histories of sexuality, race, and gender in the US. By examining how different cultures and times viewed sexuality, race and gender, it analyzes relationships between regulation of bodies\/behaviors and construction of cultural, economic, and political norms.",""],"HISTORY 15F":["HISTORY","What to Eat? Immigrants and the Development of American Cuisines","Relationship between immigration and changing American foodways; impact of several major culinary traditions of immigrants and racial minorities, such as African Americans, Asian Americans, Mexican Americans, Italian Americans, Irish Americans, and Jewish Americans, on America's gastronomical and socioeconomic landscape.",""],"HISTORY 15G":["HISTORY","Racial Segregation in Modern U","Explores the history of racial segregation in the United States from the late 19th century to the present.",""],"HISTORY 16A":["HISTORY","World Religions I","An introduction to the history, doctrine, culture, and writing of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.",""],"HISTORY 16B":["HISTORY","World Religions II","An introduction to various religious traditions in selected areas of the world--including India and South Asia, East Asia, Africa, and the Americas.",""],"HISTORY 16C":["HISTORY","Religious Dialogue","Lectures and discussion on controversial topics in religion: sexual morality; religious violence; science; treatment of women and girls; religious truth, American Constitutional matters; secularization; the future of religion, and other topics.",""],"HISTORY 18A":["HISTORY","Major Jewish Texts","Introduction to the diversity of Jewish cultures from ancient to modern times. Surveys the Jewish experience in various societies and civilizations: ancient Mediterranean, Middle East and North Africa, Europe, and the Americas.",""],"HISTORY 21A":["HISTORY","World:  Innovations","Treats major themes of world historical development through the mid-seventeenth century, focusing on the Eurasian world, but with secondary emphasis on Africa and the Americas.",""],"HISTORY 21B":["HISTORY","World: Empires and Revolutions","Examines three major transformations that made the world of 1870 dramatically different from that of 1650: e.g., the scientific revolution, industrialization, and the formation of modern states and nations.",""],"HISTORY 21C":["HISTORY","World: Nation, War, and Rights","Considers several major currents of modern history: technological change and its social effects; changes in gender relations; totalitarianism; peasant revolutions and the crisis of colonization; international migration; and ecological problems.",""],"HISTORY 36A":["HISTORY","The Formation of Ancient Greek Society: Early Greece","A survey of ancient Greek civilization from its origins in the Bronze Age to the mid-Archaic period. Examines political and social history, as well as literature, art, religion, and archaeological remains.",""],"HISTORY 36B":["HISTORY","The Formation of Ancient Greek Society:  Late Archaic and Classical Greece","A survey of ancient Greek civilization from the Late Archaic period to the Classical period. Focuses on major institutions and cultural phenomena as seen through the study of ancient Greek literature, history, archaeology, and religion.",""],"HISTORY 36C":["HISTORY","The Formation of Ancient Greek Society: Fourth-Century and Hellenistic Greece","A survey of ancient Greek civilization from the fourth century BCE through to the Hellenistic period. Focuses on major institutions and cultural phenomena as seen through the study of ancient Greek literature, history, archaeology, and religion.",""],"HISTORY 37A":["HISTORY","The Formation of Ancient Roman Society: Origins to Roman Republic","A survey of the development of Roman civilization from its eighth century BCE beginnings to the civil wars of the first century BCE. Examines political and social history, as well as literature, art, architecture, and religion.",""],"HISTORY 37B":["HISTORY","The Formation of Ancient Roman Society: Roman Empire","A survey of Roman civilization from Augustus's consolidation of power following the civil wars of the first century BCE to the crisis of the third century CE. Includes social history, literature, art, architecture, and religion.",""],"HISTORY 37C":["HISTORY","The Formation of Ancient Roman Society: The Fall of Rome","A survey of Roman civilization from the crisis of the third century CE to the so-called \"fall of Rome\" in 476 CE.  Examines political and social history, as well as literature, art, architecture, and religion.",""],"HISTORY 40A":["HISTORY","Colonial America:  New Worlds","Important themes in the social, economic, political, and cultural development in North America that transformed part of the geographical space into the U.S. Topics include Native Americans, European colonization, African enslavement, borderlands, gender, economic stratification, the American Revolution, the Constitution.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 40B":["HISTORY","Nineteenth-Century U","Explores the transformation of American society, economy, and politics during the nineteenth century. Topics include industrial revolution, slavery, antislavery, women's rights, reform movements, Civil War and Reconstruction, immigration and ethnicity, and cultural and social transformation.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 40C":["HISTORY","Modern America:  Culture and Power","Important themes in U.S. history in the twentieth and early twenty-first centuries. Topics include corporate capitalism, empire, immigration, race, gender, consumer society, World Wars, Progressiveness, New Deal, Great Society, civil rights, women's movements, Vietnam War, conservative politics, and economic stratification.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 50":["HISTORY","Crises and Revolutions","Study of turning points in world history, illustrating themes and methods of historical analysis.",""],"HISTORY 60":["HISTORY","The Making of Modern Science","Surveys the history of science and mathematics since the Scientific Revolution, examining central developments both chronologically and thematically, as well as investigating their significance for contemporary philosophical debates about the role and status of current scientific theories.",""],"HISTORY 70A":["HISTORY","Problems in History: Asia","An introduction to the historical problems, the issues of interpretation, the primary sources, and the historical scholarship of the history of Asia, with an emphasis on developing skills in historical essay-writing.",""],"HISTORY 70B":["HISTORY","Problems in History: Europe","An introduction to the historical problems, the issues of interpretation, the primary sources, and the historical scholarship of the history of Europe, with an emphasis on developing skills in historical essay-writing.",""],"HISTORY 70C":["HISTORY","Problems in History: United States","An introduction to the historical problems, the issues of interpretation, the primary sources, and the historical scholarship of the history of the United States, with an emphasis on developing skills in historical essay-writing.",""],"HISTORY 70D":["HISTORY","Problems in History: Latin America","An introduction to the historical problems, the issues of interpretation, the primary sources, and the historical scholarship of the history of Latin America, with an emphasis on developing skills in historical essay-writing.",""],"HISTORY 70E":["HISTORY","Problems in History: Middle East and Africa","An introduction to the historical problems, the issues of interpretation, the primary sources, and the historical scholarship of the history of the Middle East and Africa, with an emphasis on developing skills in historical essay-writing.",""],"HISTORY 70F":["HISTORY","Problems in History: Transregional History","An introduction to the historical problems, the issues of interpretation, the primary sources, and the historical scholarship of transregional history, with an emphasis on developing skills in historical essay-writing.",""],"HISTORY 100W":["HISTORY","Writing About History","Specialized courses focusing on history writing and research skills. Each class reflects the instructor's intellectual interests and is conducted as a discussion group. Limited to 18 students. Several short writing assignments and one longer project meeting the upper-division writing requirement.","HISTORY 12 or HISTORY 15A or HISTORY 15C or HISTORY 15D or HISTORY 16A or HISTORY 16B or HISTORY 16C or HISTORY 18A or HISTORY 21A or HISTORY 21B or HISTORY 21C or HISTORY 40A or HISTORY 40B or HISTORY 40C or HISTORY 60 or HISTORY 70A or HISTORY 70B or HISTORY 70C or HISTORY 70D or HISTORY 70E or HISTORY 70F. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 102B":["HISTORY","Topics in Environmental History","Explores the many historical interfaces between climate change, modes of production, and culture. Topics include the environmental history of warfare, imperialism, and famine in the nineteenth century and the history of environmental thought.",""],"HISTORY 110D":["HISTORY","Topics in Medieval Europe","Theme-based approach to the main social, political, religious, and cultural developments in Europe between the 4th and 15th centuries. Topics include the Crusades, medieval towns, medieval visionaries, and the deadly sins.",""],"HISTORY 112D":["HISTORY","Topics in Early Modern Europe","Theme-based approach to the main social, political, and cultural developments in Europe between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries.  Topics included Renaissance humanism, Reformation and Counter-Reformation, scientific revolution, court culture and nation building, interactions with non-European peoples, cities and commerce.",""],"HISTORY 114":["HISTORY","Topics in Modern European History","Course content changes with instructor. Topics include the Inquisition; science and religion in modern Europe; sex and society in modern Europe; French revolutions; culture in interwar Europe; the Holocaust; the fall of communism in Eastern Europe.",""],"HISTORY 120D":["HISTORY","War and Empire: France and the World in the 20th Century","Examines French experience of World War I, the defeat and occupation by Germany in World War II, the violent struggles that came with the loss of the French empire in the 1950s and 1960s, immigration, French responses to globalization.",""],"HISTORY 123D":["HISTORY","Topics in Spanish History","Topics include Spain in the nineteenth century, the Spanish Civil War, and dictatorship and democracy in modern Spain.",""],"HISTORY 124B":["HISTORY","Twentieth-Century Russia","Political and social developments in Twentieth-Century Russia.",""],"HISTORY 126B":["HISTORY","The Era of World War II: 1933-45","The era of World War II and its political, social and economic history.",""],"HISTORY 128C":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of Women in Europe","Studies in selected areas of history of European women. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 130C":["HISTORY","Topics in the Jewish History","Studies in selected areas of Jewish history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 130D":["HISTORY","History of Antisemitism","Survey of the history of antisemitism, ancient to modern. Topics include medieval religious anti-Judaism, persecution of Jews and Judaism during the Crusades and the Inquisition, the rise of modern racial antisemitism, Nazi antisemitism, and the persistence of antisemitism since 1945.",""],"HISTORY 130F":["HISTORY","Jews and Power","Examines the relationship between the Jewish people and political power over a 3500 year period. How have Jews preserved their communal interests and personal safety? How have they defined the proper relationship of the people to political authority.",""],"HISTORY 131A":["HISTORY","History of Zoroastrianism","Reviews major trends in the history of Zoroastrianism.",""],"HISTORY 131B":["HISTORY","Ancient Persia","Survey of the history of Persia in antiquity.",""],"HISTORY 131C":["HISTORY","Medieval Persia","A survey of Persian history in the context of Late Antique and Medieval Islamic history.",""],"HISTORY 131D":["HISTORY","Modern Iran","The history of Iran from the end of the Safavid Empire in the eighteenth century to the present.",""],"HISTORY 132B":["HISTORY","The Emergence of the Modern Middle East","Offers a survey of the history of the Middle East from the 19th century to the present time. Formerly History 133A.",""],"HISTORY 132C":["HISTORY","Women and Gender in the Middle East","Focuses on women and gender in the Middle East from the pre-modern to the contemporary.",""],"HISTORY 132D":["HISTORY","Armenians and Armenia in Ancient to Early Modern World History","A history of Armenia and Armenians from ethnogenesis to the early modern period at the end of the 1700s within a regional and global context. Takes into account interactions and encounters with the empires, and peoples that encompassed their orbit.",""],"HISTORY 132E":["HISTORY","Armenians and Armenia in Modern World History","Covers the most important themes in the history of Armenians and Armenia in the 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries within a regional (i.e., Middle East and Caucasus) and global context.",""],"HISTORY 132H":["HISTORY","Topics in Middle Eastern History","Topics include the cultural, political, intellectual, social, and\/or economic histories of one or many regions of the Middle East.",""],"HISTORY 134A":["HISTORY","Africa: Societies and Cultures","Introduction to the variety of cultures, political organizations, social structures, and artistic expressions created by Africans over a broad time span. Indigenous development of African societies in distinct regions of the continent. Issues, themes, processes for understanding history of Africa.",""],"HISTORY 134C":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of Africa"," Studies in selected areas of African history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 134D":["HISTORY","Topics in South African History","Introduction to important historical events and processes in Southern Africa. Focuses on particular themes and explores how those themes change over time. Topics include: changing ideas about race, the development of class structures, identity formation, the role of gender.",""],"HISTORY 134E":["HISTORY","History of the African Diaspora","Examines the causes and consequences of the multiple diasporas of African peoples since the sixteenth century in the Atlantic world, especially the Americas and Europe.",""],"HISTORY 135A":["HISTORY","The Scientific Revolution","An examination of early modern European science from 1500-1700. Includes primary readings from central figures (Copernicus, Harvey, Bacon, Descartes, et al.); themes include the impact of printing, humanism, patronage, technology, and discussion of the term \"revolution\" in this context.",""],"HISTORY 135B":["HISTORY","Crossing the World's Oceans: From Sail to Steam","Explores the basics of oceanography, the evolution of ships and sailing in the ancient Mediterranean world, the North Atlantic, Polynesia, the South China Sea, the Arab Indian Ocean, the global oceanic world, and the discovery of celestial and terrestrial navigation.",""],"HISTORY 135E":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of Science and Technology","Studies in selected areas of science and technological history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 135G":["HISTORY","Language Origins: Evolution, Genetics, and the Brain","Examines how human language(s) may have originated. Studies pertinent techniques (reconstruction) and addresses related questions, including is our language faculty inborn (i.e., genetically encoded)? Can brain imaging and population genetics research help to unlock this mystery of human evolution?.",""],"HISTORY 136D":["HISTORY"," Topics in the History of Medicine and Health Care","Studies in selected areas of Medicine and Health Care history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 137":["HISTORY","Surviving Epidemics","Analyzes diverse social and cultural responses to epidemics from mid-nineteenth century to the present, including incarceration, caregiving, and disability rights. Using interdisciplinary materials and collaborative activities, students interpret strategies and outcomes of Indigenous, racialized, and marginalized communities surviving great illness.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 140":["HISTORY","Topics in U","Studies in selected areas of U.S. history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 142A":["HISTORY","California Dreaming: Conquest, Conflict, and Globalization in the Golden State","California as a case study of national trends and as a unique setting: its specific problems and culture. Major themes include: colonization, immigration, race relations, agricultural development, industrialization, urbanization, working class movements, social conflict, and political reform.",""],"HISTORY 142B":["HISTORY","Topics in American Social and Economic History","Studies in selected areas of American social and economic history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 144G":["HISTORY","Topics in American Cultural and Intellectual History","Studies in selected areas of American cultural and intellectual history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 146H":["HISTORY","Topics in Women and Gender Relations in the United States","Studies in selected areas of women and gender relations in the United States. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 147":["HISTORY","Education and the American Dream: Historical Perspectives on Democracy and Education","Examines the relationship between public schooling and the promotion of democratic ideals in American society over the past two centuries.",""],"HISTORY 148B":["HISTORY","Topics in Multicultural U","Examines the variety of cultural expressions through which the people who came to inhabit the United States historically signify their collective identities.",""],"HISTORY 149":["HISTORY","Veterans in History and Society","Explores key concepts, issues, and trends in the interdisciplinary field of veterans studies. Students gain a deep understanding of the ways that social scientists and historians have analyzed the identities, experiences, and worldviews of U.S. military veterans.",""],"HISTORY 150":["HISTORY","Topics in African American History","Studies in selected areas of African American history.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 151B":["HISTORY","Chicana\/Chicano History: Twentieth Century","Examines social history of the Southwest with emphasis on Mexican-origin people. Discusses major questions, theory and research methods pertinent to Chicana\/Chicano history. Themes explored include: immigration, xenophobia, class struggle, leadership, generational cohorts, unionization, education, barrioization, ethnicity, patriarchy, sexuality.",""],"HISTORY 151C":["HISTORY","Latinas in the Twentieth Century U","Latinas in the U.S. from 1900 to present, offering a diversity of their cultures, regional histories, sexualities, generations, and classes.",""],"HISTORY 151D":["HISTORY","Latina\/Latino Pop:  Latina\/Latino Popular Culture","With a focus on the politics of language and space\/place, prepares students to critically analyze sites of Latina\/Latino popular culture including: music, film, performance, sports, media, and varied subcultures.",""],"HISTORY 152":["HISTORY","Topics in Asian-American History","Introduction to important themes in the history of people of Asian ancestry in the United States from the nineteenth century to the present.",""],"HISTORY 152A":["HISTORY","Asian American Labor","Explores history of Asian Americans and work from the nineteenth century to the present. Areas of study include migration, colonialism, family, social organization, and work culture.",""],"HISTORY 154":["HISTORY","American Urban History","A study of urban communities in the United States, from colonial times to the present. Traces the impact of industrialization and urbanization on social and cultural life, and investigates the significance of urban life for U.S. democratic culture.",""],"HISTORY 160":["HISTORY","Sex and Conquest in Latin America","Competing ideas of masculinity and femininity, sexual violence, sexual identities, and gendered hierarchies informed how the Spanish engaged in military and religious domination of Mexican and Andean communities, as well as the forms of native resistance throughout colonial Latin America.",""],"HISTORY 162":["HISTORY","Topics in Brazilian History","Studies in selected areas of Brazilian history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 163":["HISTORY","World of Coffee       ","History of consumption and production of coffee over the centuries, and coffee's cultural, economic, social, political consequences. Coffee's social life as a drug, symbol of hospitality, religious rite, sociability and bourgeois lifestyle, commodity, source of livelihoods, imperial revenues, corporate profits.",""],"HISTORY 164A":["HISTORY","Caribbean History: Colonization to Emancipation","Exploration of the history of the archipelago from pre-Columbian times to the end of slavery; examining the impact of European colonization, decimation of the indigenous populations, African slavery, resistance, and emancipation; the unity and diversity of experience in region.",""],"HISTORY 164B":["HISTORY","Caribbean History: Emancipation to Independence","Post-emancipation and anti-colonial struggles ending with political independence for most of the region. Examines social, political, economic, cultural dimensions of post-emancipation period, including large-scale migration to Central America, the U.S., and Britain; the region's global cultural and political contribution.",""],"HISTORY 165A":["HISTORY","War and Revolution in Colonial Latin America","Comparison of how Andeans resurrected the leaders of the Inca, a defeated indigenous empire, to contest the Spanish empire with how enslaved Africans, with their descendants and others, defeated Spanish colonial rule in what would become the Cuban nation.",""],"HISTORY 166":["HISTORY","U","Explores political, economic, social, and cultural ties that bind Latin America to the United States. Focuses on U.S. intervention and Latin American response from early nineteenth century to present day. Case studies include Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, Chile, and Central America.",""],"HISTORY 166B":["HISTORY","Revolution and Reaction in Cold War Latin America","Explores Latin American experiences of revolutionary change and military dictatorship during the Cold War (1945-1990). Pays particular attention to the lives of women, peasants, workers, and the urban middle classes. Case studies include Guatemala, Cuba, Chile, Argentina, Nicaragua, and Mexico.",""],"HISTORY 166C":["HISTORY","Cuban Society and Revolution","Explores the causes, development, and legacy of the 1959 Revolution. Themes include economic dependency, democracy, race, gender, culture, and the always volatile relations between Cuba and the United States.",""],"HISTORY 166D":["HISTORY","Revolution in Latin America","Presents a comparative analysis of the causes, development, and consequences of selected revolutionary movements, focusing on outbreaks in Mexico, Bolivia, Cuba, Chile, Nicaragua, and Grenada.  Explores topics of state formation, economic nationalism, social justice, ethnicity, and role of international affairs.",""],"HISTORY 169":["HISTORY","Topics in Latin American History","Studies in selected areas of Latin American history.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 170A":["HISTORY","Ancient India","Examines the visual and religious history of the region defined as \"India\" today, but necessarily encompassing modern Bangladesh and Pakistan.  Culminates with the supposed Golden Age of the Gupta empire and its far-reaching legacies.",""],"HISTORY 170B":["HISTORY","Medieval India","Begins with the Gupta period's aesthetic legacies in South Asia's architecture, sculpture, and painting. Explores the dispersal of Islam throughout South Asia, including the Muslim communities of southern India.",""],"HISTORY 171D":["HISTORY","Chinese History to 1800","A survey of the history of China to 1800.",""],"HISTORY 171E":["HISTORY","Chinese History: 1800-1949","An examination of Chinese society and thought from the late-eighteenth century to the 1949 revolution. Focuses on the role of intellectuals; popular culture; women in Chinese society; developments in commerce and urban life; rebellion; foreign imperialism.",""],"HISTORY 171G":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of China","Topics include the cultural, political, economic, social, intellectual, and religious history of China.",""],"HISTORY 172G":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of Japan","Topics include the cultural, political, economic, social, intellectual and religious history of Japan.",""],"HISTORY 173G":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of Korea","Topics include the cultural, political, economic, social, intellectual, and religious history of Korea.",""],"HISTORY 174G":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of South Asia","Topics include the cultural, political, economic, social, intellectual, and religious history of South Asia.",""],"HISTORY 175G":["HISTORY","Topics in the History of Southeast Asia","Topics include the cultural, political, economic, social, intellectual, and religious history of Southeast Asia.",""],"HISTORY 178":["HISTORY","The Viet Nam War Seen through Oral History","Offers an overview of the Viet Nam War; explores the art of doing oral history and the use of oral testimony in research and writing the history of war through conducting oral history interviews with individuals of the war generation.",""],"HISTORY 180":["HISTORY","Special Studies in Social History","Studies in selected areas of social history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 182":["HISTORY","Special Studies in Intellectual-Cultural History","Studies in selected areas of intellectual-cultural history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 183":["HISTORY","Special Studies in International History","Studies in selected areas of international history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 184":["HISTORY","Special Studies in Comparative History","Studies in selected areas of comparative history. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 185":["HISTORY","Special Studies in Social Theory","Studies in selected areas of social theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"HISTORY 190":["HISTORY","Colloquium           ","Specialized courses dealing primarily with close reading and analysis of primary and secondary works; required reports and papers. Each colloquium reflects the instructor's intellectual interests and is conducted as a discussion group. Limited to 18 students.",""],"HISTORY 193":["HISTORY","Advanced Research Seminar I","The first course in a two-quarter advanced research sequence, this course allows upper-division history majors to undertake significant research and writing under close faculty supervision.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 194":["HISTORY","Advanced Research Seminar II","Second course in a two-quarter advanced research sequence. Allows upper division history majors to undertake significant research and writing under close faculty supervision.","HISTORY 193. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"HISTORY 197":["HISTORY","Internships in Public History","Students will sharpen their abilities to research, critically interpret, and present history by \"doing history\" beyond the formal classroom. Internships, which introduce students to the field of \"public history,\" include working as archivists, oral historians, project advisers, and exhibit curators.",""],"HISTORY 198":["HISTORY","Directed Group Study","Special topics through directed reading. Paper required.",""],"HISTORY 199":["HISTORY","Independent Reading","Investigation of special topics through directed reading. Paper required.",""],"HISTORY 200":["HISTORY","History and Theory","Explores a variety of theoretical issues and methodological concerns that have sparked lively debate in the humanities and social sciences in past decades and which remain of urgent concern to 21st-century historical writing.",""],"HISTORY 202A":["HISTORY","First-Year Research Seminar","Introduction to historical methodologies and preparation for the first-year research paper. Required of all first-year doctoral students and M.A. students.",""],"HISTORY 202B":["HISTORY","First-Year Research Seminar","Research and writing of a paper demonstrating command of historical methods explored in HISTORY 202A. Required of all first-year Ph.D. students and M.A. students.","HISTORY 202A"],"HISTORY 204A":["HISTORY","Second-Year Research Seminar","Part one of a two-quarter sequence required of all Ph.D. students during the second year of the program; not required for M.A. students. Includes primary research and writing a research paper, often related to a future dissertation topic.",""],"HISTORY 204B":["HISTORY","Second-Year Research Seminar","Part two of a two-quarter sequence required of all Ph.D. students. Taken during the second year of the Ph.D. program; not required for M.A. students. Includes primary research and writing a research paper, often related to a future dissertation topic.","HISTORY 204A"],"HISTORY 230":["HISTORY","Topics in European History ","Studies in selected themes and time periods in European history. Topics and period vary.",""],"HISTORY 240":["HISTORY","Topics in World History","Studies in selected themes and time periods in world history. Topics and period vary.",""],"HISTORY 250":["HISTORY","Topics in Latin American History ","Studies in selected themes and time periods in Latin American history. Topics and period vary.",""],"HISTORY 260":["HISTORY","Topics in American History","Studies in selected themes and time periods in U.S. history. Topics and period vary.",""],"HISTORY 270":["HISTORY","Topics in Middle Eastern History","Studies in selected themes and time periods in Middle Eastern history. Topics and period vary.",""],"HISTORY 280":["HISTORY","Topics in Asian History","Studies in selected themes and time periods in Asian history. Topics and period vary.",""],"HISTORY 290":["HISTORY","Special Topics        ","Lectures, readings, and discussion on subjects more limited in scope than those included in the year-long colloquium series.",""],"HISTORY 291":["HISTORY","Directed Reading","Reading courses focused on specialized topics.",""],"HISTORY 297":["HISTORY","History Internship","Limited to History graduate students with Department-approved internships.  Materials fee.",""],"HISTORY 298":["HISTORY","Experimental Group Study","Open to four or more students.",""],"HISTORY 299":["HISTORY","Dissertation Research","Specifically designed for students researching and writing their dissertations.",""],"HISTORY 399":["HISTORY","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"HUMAN 1A":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Lecture","Through a range of cultural traditions and an interdisciplinary approach to works of literature, history, philosophy, and contemporary media, students are introduced to the humanities.",""],"HUMAN 1AES":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing: Entry Level Writing","A small writing course for Entry Level Writing students exploring the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.",""],"HUMAN 1AS":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing","A small writing course in which students explore the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HUMAN 1B":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Lecture","Through a range of cultural traditions and an interdisciplinary approach to works of literature, history, philosophy, and contemporary media, students are introduced to the humanities.",""],"HUMAN 1BES":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing: Entry Level Writing","A small writing course for Entry Level Writing students exploring the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","C- or below in HUMAN 1AES."],"HUMAN 1BS":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing","A small writing course in which students explore the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HUMAN 1C":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Lecture","Through a range of cultural traditions and an interdisciplinary approach to works of literature, history, philosophy, and contemporary media, students are introduced to the humanities.","HUMAN 1A or HUMAN 1B"],"HUMAN 1CS":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing","A small writing course in which students explore the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","HUMAN 1AS or HUMAN H1AS or HUMAN 1BS or HUMAN H1BS or HUMAN 1BES. HUMAN 1AS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN H1AS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1BS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN H1BS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1BES with a grade of C or better"],"HUMAN B1A":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Biological Sciences Lecture","Through a range of cultural traditions and an interdisciplinary approach to works of literature, history, philosophy, and contemporary media, students are introduced to the humanities.",""],"HUMAN H1AS":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing: Honors","For Campuswide Honors students exploring the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HUMAN H1BS":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing: Honors","For Campuswide Honors students exploring the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"HUMAN H1CS":["HUMAN","Humanities Core Writing: Honors","For Campuswide Honors students exploring the ideas presented in the companion lecture course and illustrated in the literary, historical, philosophical, and media works assigned.","HUMAN 1AS or HUMAN H1AS or HUMAN 1AES or HUMAN 1BS or HUMAN H1BS or HUMAN 1BES. HUMAN 1AS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN H1AS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1AES with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1BS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN H1BS with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1BES with a grade of C or better"],"HUMAN 10":["HUMAN","Masterpieces of Literature","Students closely read major works of world literature that are significant (1) in their own right, (2) for a specific literary tradition, and (3) because of their reception in other cultural contexts. Literature written in English and English translation.",""],"HUMAN 52":["HUMAN","Foundations of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism","Provides a comprehensive overview of current issues in bilingual education and bilingualism. Topics include dimensions of bilingualism, the effects of bilingualism on children's linguistic and cognitive development, bilingual education programs, literacy, special needs, and assessment.",""],"HUMAN H80":["HUMAN","Exploring Memory","Questions about human memory are central to a wide range of disciplines. Students will explore how historians, sociologists, social psychologists, legal experts, and neuroscientists understand human memory and apply their findings to understand and shape their own societies.",""],"HUMAN H81":["HUMAN","The Vietnam War     ","Examines the origins, evolution, opposition against, conclusion, and legacy of the United States in the Vietnam War.",""],"HUMAN H83":["HUMAN","How Nations Remember","Just like people, nations select and organize what and how they want to remember. Compares how specific historical events (such as slavery and the Holocaust) are memorialized in various countries and represented in public art works, museums, literature, and film.",""],"HUMAN H84":["HUMAN","Traveling East\/West","Traveling East\/West presents a wide range of travel writings by Chinese, Indian, and Euro-American authors in which they contemplate the complexities of cross-cultural encounters and how knowledge about others and knowledge of ourselves are closely intertwined.",""],"HUMAN H120":["HUMAN","Honors Proseminar   ","Interdisciplinary Honors courses organized each year around a single topic problem designed to compare and contrast modes of analysis in history, literary studies, and philosophy.",""],"HUMAN H140":["HUMAN","Senior Honors Seminar","Directed by Humanities Honors Thesis Advisor and required of students in Humanities Honors program and Humanities majors in Campuswide Honors Program.  Designed to facilitate exchange of ideas and research strategies among students and begin process of writing senior honors thesis.",""],"HUMAN H141":["HUMAN","Senior Honors Thesis","Directed independent research required of participants in the Humanities Honors Program and Humanities majors in the Campuswide Honors Program.","HUMAN H140"],"HUMAN H142W":["HUMAN","Senior Honors Colloquium","Completion, presentation, and discussion of Senior Honors Theses.","HUMAN H141"],"HUMAN H145":["HUMAN","Arts of Contemporary Communication","A workshop seminar exploring the theory and practice of visual design, data visualization, and oral presentation. Designed to get students to think about, and hone their skills in, effective presentation of information in multiple media.",""],"HUMAN 175":["HUMAN","Topics in Humanities and Science ","Interdisciplinary topics exploring the relationship between the humanities and the physical and biological sciences.",""],"HUMAN 195":["HUMAN","Humanities Out There (H","H.O.T. sponsors tutoring opportunities in local schools and after-school sites for UCI students. Requirements include weekly one-hour training sessions at UCI; at least eight off-site tutoring sessions; and short writing assignments.",""],"HUMAN 198":["HUMAN","Directed Group Study","Directed group study on special topics.",""],"HUMAN 199":["HUMAN","Directed Research","Directed research for senior Humanities students.",""],"HUMAN 260A":["HUMAN","Critical Theory Workshop","A year-long Critical Theory Workshop, conducted by a team of instructors, conceived as a reading group, and developed with the input of all participants, where significant texts are discussed and analyzed in class.",""],"HUMAN 260B":["HUMAN","Critical Theory Workshop","A year-long Critical Theory Workshop, conducted by a team of instructors, conceived as a reading group, and developed with the input of all participants, where significant texts are discussed and analyzed in class.",""],"HUMAN 260C":["HUMAN","Critical Theory Workshop","A year-long Critical Theory Workshop, conducted by a team of instructors, conceived as a reading group, and developed with the input of all participants, where significant texts are discussed and analyzed in class.",""],"HUMAN 261":["HUMAN","Race and Justice Studies Writing Seminar ","A required writing-intensive seminar conducted by an instructor affiliated with the Race and Justice Studies emphasis. Students with manuscripts on relevant topics will read and critique peer manuscripts, and revise manuscripts toward completion of articles, dissertation chapters, and other publications.","CRM\/LAW C260C"],"HUMAN 265A":["HUMAN","Issues In Latin American Studies I","Students discuss significant texts on Latin America from a range of disciplines in the humanities, social sciences, and the arts. This course will meet 3-4 times per quarter throughout the academic year.",""],"HUMAN 265B":["HUMAN","Issues In Latin American Studies II","Students discuss significant texts on Latin America from a range of disciplines in the humanities, social sciences, and the arts. This course will meet 3-4 times per quarter throughout the academic year.","HUMAN 265A"],"HUMAN 265C":["HUMAN","Issues In Latin American Studies III ","Students discuss significant texts on Latin America from a range of disciplines in the humanities, social sciences, and the arts. This course will meet 3-4 times per quarter throughout the academic year.","HUMAN 265B"],"HUMAN 270":["HUMAN","Advanced Critical Theory","Seminars on various topics in critical theory.","Students should have taken introductory courses before enrolling in these seminars."],"HUMAN 298":["HUMAN","Humanities Out There (H","Individual study with H.O.T. faculty supervisor.",""],"HUMAN 398A":["HUMAN","Foreign Language Teaching: Approaches and Methods","Introduces approaches and methods of foreign language learning and teaching, and the theoretical models of second-language acquisition and teaching. Focus areas include lesson planning, teaching vocabulary, grammar, speaking, reading, writing, listening, culture, task-based teaching, uses of digital media.",""],"HUMAN 398B":["HUMAN","Foreign Language Teaching: Approaches and Methods","Introduces approaches and methods of foreign language learning and teaching, and the theoretical models of second-language acquisition and teaching. Focus areas include lesson planning, teaching vocabulary, grammar, speaking, reading, writing, listening, culture, task-based teaching, uses of digital media.",""],"HUMAN 399":["HUMAN","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Associates in Humanities Core course.",""],"IN4MATX 12":["IN4MATX","Barter to Bitcoin: Society, Technology and the Future of Money","Digital money has captured the broad imagination of speculators, coders, regulators, criminals and the mass media. Course puts this change in context: how do we understand money as a social, political and technological phenomenon?.",""],"IN4MATX 43":["IN4MATX","Introduction to Software Engineering","Concepts, methods, and current practice of software engineering. Large-scale software production, software life cycle models, principles and techniques for each stage of development.","I&C SCI 32 or I&C SCI 32A"],"IN4MATX 80":["IN4MATX","Special Topics in Informatics","Designed for informatics instructors to pilot new teaching materials and prototype new class. The format of the class is flexible based on the content to be offered in the future.","Prerequisites vary."],"IN4MATX H81":["IN4MATX","Ethics, Technology, and Design","Provides a critical framework for how and why biases of many kinds are built into everyday digital tools. Reflections on ethics, technology, and design through case studies drawn from machine learning, CS education, engineering, social media, and criminal justice.",""],"IN4MATX 101":["IN4MATX","Concepts in Programming Languages I","In-depth study of several contemporary programming languages stressing variety in data structures, operations, notation, and control. Examination of different programming paradigms, such as logic programming, functional programming and object-oriented programming; implementation strategies, programming environments, and programming style.","(I&C SCI 51 or CSE 31 or EECS 31) and (I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46). I&C SCI 51 with a grade of C or better. CSE 31 with a grade of C or better. EECS 31 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 102":["IN4MATX","Concepts of Programming Language II","In-depth study of major programming paradigms: imperative, functional, declarative, object-oriented, and aspect-oriented. Understanding the role of programming languages in software development and the suitability of languages in context. Domain-specific languages. Designing new languages for better software development support.","IN4MATX 101 or COMPSCI 141 or CSE 141"],"IN4MATX 113":["IN4MATX","Requirements Analysis and Engineering","Equips students to develop techniques of software-intensive systems through successful requirements analysis techniques and requirements engineering. Students learn systematic process of developing requirements through cooperative problem analysis, representation, and validation.","(I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43) and IN4MATX 43. I&C SCI 33 with a grade of C or better. CSE 43 with a grade of C or better. IN4MATX 43 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 115":["IN4MATX","Software Testing, Analysis, and Quality Assurance","Preparation for developing high-quality software through successful verification and validation techniques. Fundamental principles of software testing, implementing software testing practices, ensuring the thoroughness of testing to gain confidence in the correctness of the software.","(I&C SCI 45J or I&C SCI 45C or I&C SCI 46 or CSE 46) and IN4MATX 43. I&C SCI 45J with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 45C with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better. IN4MATX 43 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 117":["IN4MATX","Project in Software System Design","Specification, design, construction, testing, and documentation of a complete software system. Special emphasis on the need for and use of teamwork, careful planning, and other techniques for working with large systems.","(IN4MATX 43 and I&C SCI 33) or CSE 43"],"IN4MATX 121":["IN4MATX","Software Design: Applications","Introduction to application design: designing the overall functionality of a software application. Topics include general design theory, software design theory, and software architecture. Includes practice in designing and case studies of existing designs.","I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43. I&C SCI 33 with a grade of C or better. CSE 43 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 122":["IN4MATX","Software Design: Structure and Implementation","Introduction to implementation design: designing the internals of a software application. Topics include design aesthetics, design implementation, design recovery, design patterns, and component reuse. Includes practice in designing and case studies of existing designs.","(I&C SCI 45J or I&C SCI 46 or IN4MATX 45) and (IN4MATX 101 or COMPSCI 141 or CSE 141)"],"IN4MATX 124":["IN4MATX","Internet Applications Engineering","Concepts in Internet applications engineering with emphasis on the Web. Peer-to-Peer and Interoperability. Topics include HTTP and REST, Remote Procedure\/Method Calls, Web Services, data representations, content distribution networks, identity management, relevant W3C\/IETF standards, and relevant new large-scale computing styles.","(COMPSCI 132 or EECS 148) and I&C SCI 45J"],"IN4MATX 125":["IN4MATX","Computer Game Development","Introduction to the principles of interactive 2D and 3D computer game development. Concepts in computer graphics, algorithms, software engineering, art and graphics, music and sound, story analysis, and artificial intelligence are presented and are the basis for student work.","COMPSCI 112 or COMPSCI 171 or IN4MATX 121 or ART 106B or I&C SCI 163 or I&C SCI 166"],"IN4MATX 131":["IN4MATX","Human Computer Interaction","Basic principles of human-computer interaction (HCI). Introduces students to user interface design techniques, design guidelines, and usability testing. Students gain the ability to design and evaluate user interfaces and become familiar with some of the outstanding research problems in HCI.","I&C SCI 10 or I&C SCI 31 or I&C SCI 32A or CSE 41 or ENGR 10 or ENGRMAE 10 or EECS 10. I&C SCI 10 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 31 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 32A with a grade of C or better. CSE 41 with a grade of C or better. ENGR 10 with a grade of C or better. ENGRMAE 10 with a grade of C or better. EECS 10 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 132":["IN4MATX","Project in Human-Computer Interaction Requirements and Evaluation","Students undertake significant projects in the elicitation and specification of HCI requirements and the thorough evaluation of user interfaces.","IN4MATX 131"],"IN4MATX 133":["IN4MATX","User Interaction Software","Introduction to human-computer interaction programming. Emphasis on current tools, standards, methodologies for implementing effective interaction designs. Widget toolkits, Web interface programming, geo-spatial and map interfaces, mobile phone interfaces.","I&C SCI 45J or I&C SCI 45C. I&C SCI 45J with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 45C with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 134":["IN4MATX","Project in User Interaction Software","Students complete an end-to-end user interface programming project based on an iterative design paradigm. Topics may include requirements brainstorming, paper prototyping, iterative development, cognitive walk-through, quantitative evaluation, and acceptance testing. Materials fee.","IN4MATX 131 and IN4MATX 133"],"IN4MATX 141":["IN4MATX","Information Retrieval","An introduction to information retrieval including indexing, retrieval, classifying, and clustering text and multimedia documents.","(I&C SCI 45C or I&C SCI 45J) and (STATS 7 or STATS 67). I&C SCI 45C with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 45J with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 143":["IN4MATX","Information Visualization","Introduction to interactive visual interfaces for large datasets, and to principles of human visual perception and human computer interaction that inform their design. Various applications for data analysis and monitoring are discussed.","(IN4MATX 131 or IN4MATX 43) and (I&C SCI 31 or I&C SCI 32A or CSE 41). IN4MATX 131 with a grade of C or better. IN4MATX 43 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 31 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 32A with a grade of C or better. CSE 41 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 148":["IN4MATX","Project in Ubiquitous Computing","Introduction to ubiquitous computing research methods, tools, and techniques. Prototyping, design, and evaluation of physical computing applications, smart environments, embedded systems, and future computing scenarios. Includes hands-on in-class laboratory exercises. Materials fee.","I&C SCI 10 or I&C SCI 31 or CSE 41 or I&C SCI 32A. I&C SCI 10 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 31 with a grade of C or better. CSE 41 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 32A with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 151":["IN4MATX","Project Management","Introduces theoretical and practical aspects of project management. Topics include organizational theory, group behavior, project management skills, case studies, personal and group productivity tools, management of distributed work, stakeholders, consultants, and knowledge management. Students do a project exercise.","IN4MATX 43"],"IN4MATX 153":["IN4MATX","Computer Supported Cooperative Work","Introduces concepts and principles of collaborative systems. Topics may include shared workspaces, group interaction, workflow, architectures, interaction between social and technical features of group work, and examples of collaborative systems used in real-world settings. Students develop a simple collaborative application.","(IN4MATX 161 or IN4MATX 43) and (I&C SCI 31 or I&C SCI 32A or CSE 41). I&C SCI 31 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 32A with a grade of C or better. CSE 41 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 161":["IN4MATX","Social Analysis of Computing","Introduction of computing as a social process. Examines the social opportunities and problems raised by new information technologies, and the consequences of different ways of organizing. Topics include computing and work life, privacy, virtual communities, productivity paradox, systems risks.","I&C SCI 10 or I&C SCI 31 or I&C SCI 32A or CSE 41 or ENGR 10 or EECS 10 or ENGRMAE 10. I&C SCI 10 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 31 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 32A with a grade of C or better. CSE 41 with a grade of C or better. ENGR 10 with a grade of C or better. EECS 10 with a grade of C or better. ENGRMAE 10 with a grade of C or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"IN4MATX 162W":["IN4MATX","Organizational Information Systems","Introduction to role of information systems in organizations, components and structure of organizational information systems, and techniques used in information systems analysis, design, and implementation.","IN4MATX 161. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"IN4MATX 163":["IN4MATX","Project in the Social and Organizational Impacts of Computing ","Students undertake projects intended to gather and analyze data from situations in which computers are used, organize and conduct experiments intended to test hypotheses about impacts, and explore the application of concepts learned in previous courses.","IN4MATX 162W"],"IN4MATX 164":["IN4MATX","Children's Learning and Media","Examines how popular media may impact how young people learn, develop, and communicate by looking at research related to the impacts of a wide range of popular media including television, video games, digital environments, mobile devices, and other multimedia.",""],"IN4MATX 171":["IN4MATX","Introduction to Health Informatics","Broad overview of medical informatics for students with varied backgrounds. Electronic medical records, online resources, mobile technologies, patient safety, and computational design. Legal, ethical, and public policy issues. Health systems management. Evaluation and fieldwork for health systems.","WRITING 60 or WRITING 30 or WRITING 31 or HUMAN 1C or HUMAN H1C. WRITING 60 with a grade of C or better. WRITING 30 with a grade of C or better. WRITING 31 with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1C with a grade of C or better. HUMAN H1C with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 172":["IN4MATX","Project in Health Informatics","Students undertake significant quarter-long projects related to health informatics. Topics may include field evaluations of health care technologies, prototypes, iterative design, and system implementations.","PUBHLTH 105 or IN4MATX 171"],"IN4MATX 173":["IN4MATX","Consumer Health Informatics","Consumer health informatics is a subfield of health informatics aimed to empower healthcare consumers through a variety of consumer-facing technologies. Covers health behavior change, health literacy, social support, and the design, evaluation, and implementation of major technological applications.","IN4MATX 171. IN4MATX 171 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 174":["IN4MATX","Health Data Analytics","The increasing availability of electronic heath data provides an unprecedented opportunity to use data-driven approaches to improve human health. Equips students with essential skills in curating, managing, and analyzing health data, focusing on electronic health records.","IN4MATX 171. IN4MATX 171 with a grade of C or better"],"IN4MATX 190":["IN4MATX","Special Topics in Informatics","Studies in selected areas of informatics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"IN4MATX 191A":["IN4MATX","Senior Design Project","Group supervised project in which students analyze, specify, design, construct, evaluate, and adapt a significant information processing system. Topics include team management, professional ethics, and systems analysis.","IN4MATX 113 and IN4MATX 121 and IN4MATX 131 and IN4MATX 151"],"IN4MATX 191B":["IN4MATX","Senior Design Project","Group supervised project in which students analyze, specify, design, construct, evaluate, and adapt a significant information processing system. Topics include team management, professional ethics, and systems analysis.","IN4MATX 191A. In Progress (IP) grade for IN4MATX 191A is also accepted."],"IN4MATX H198":["IN4MATX","Honors Research","Directed independent research in Informatics for honors students.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"IN4MATX 199":["IN4MATX","Individual Study","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"IN4MATX 201":["IN4MATX","Research Methodology for Informatics","Introduction to strategies and idioms of research in Informatics. Includes examination of issues in scientific inquiry, qualitative and quantitative methods, and research design. Both classic texts and contemporary research literature are read and analyzed.",""],"IN4MATX 203":["IN4MATX","Qualitative Research Methods in Information Systems","Introduction to qualitative research methods used to study computerization and information systems, such as open-ended interviewing, participant observation, and ethnography. Studies of the methods in practice through examination of research literature.","IN4MATX 261 or IN4MATX 251"],"IN4MATX 205":["IN4MATX","Quantitative Research Methods in Information Systems","Quantitative research methods used to study computerization and information systems. Design of instruments, sampling, sample sizes, and data analysis. Validity and reliability. Longitudinal versus cross-sectional designs. Analysis of secondary data. Studies of the methods through examination of research literature.","IN4MATX 251 or IN4MATX 261. Basic knowledge of elementary statistics is also required."],"IN4MATX 207S":["IN4MATX","Doctoral Seminar on Research and Writing","Doctoral seminar centered on original research and writing. Provides a chance for doctoral students at all levels to present original work, brainstorm ongoing issues, and learn to provide and receive critical feedback from peers.",""],"IN4MATX 209S":["IN4MATX","Seminar in Informatics","Current research and research trends in informatics. Forum for presentation and criticism by students of research work in progress.",""],"IN4MATX 231":["IN4MATX","User Interface Design and Evaluation","Introduction to the design and evaluation of user interfaces, with an emphasis on methodology. Cognitive principles, design life cycle, on-line and off-line prototyping techniques. Toolkits and architectures for interactive systems. Evaluation techniques, including heuristic and laboratory methods.",""],"IN4MATX 232":["IN4MATX","Research in Human-Centered Computing","Introduction to contemporary topics in human-computer interaction, including methods, technologies, design, and evaluation. Emerging application domains and their challenges to traditional research methods. Advanced architectures and technologies. Critical issues.","Some familiarity with HCI principles."],"IN4MATX 241":["IN4MATX","Introduction to Ubiquitous Computing","The \"disappearing computer\" paradigm. Differences to the desktop computing model: applications, interaction in augmented environments, security, alternate media, small operating systems, sensors, and embedded systems design. Evaluation by project work and class participation.",""],"IN4MATX 242":["IN4MATX","Ubiquitous Computing and Interaction","Principles and design techniques for ubiquitous computing applications. Conceptual basis for tangible and embodied interaction. Interaction in virtual and augmented environments. Design methods and techniques. Design case studies. Examination by project work.","IN4MATX 231 and IN4MATX 241"],"IN4MATX 244":["IN4MATX","Introduction to Embedded and Ubiquitous Systems","Embedded and ubiquitous system technologies including processors, DSP, memory, and software. System interfacing basics; communication strategies; sensors and actuators, mobile and wireless technology. Using pre-designed hardware and software components. Design case studies in wireless, multimedia, and\/or networking domains.","I&C SCI 51 and COMPSCI 152 and COMPSCI 161 and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A or MATH 6G or I&C SCI 6D). B.S. degree in Computer Science is also accepted."],"IN4MATX 251":["IN4MATX","Computer-Supported Cooperative Work","The role of information systems in supporting work in groups and organizations. Examines various technologies designed to support communication, information sharing, and coordination. Focuses on behavioral and social aspects of designing and using group support technologies.",""],"IN4MATX 261":["IN4MATX","Social Analysis of Computing","The social and economic impacts of computing and information technologies on groups, organizations, and society. Topics include computerization and changes in the character of work, social control and privacy, electronic communities, and risks of safety-critical systems to people.",""],"IN4MATX 263":["IN4MATX","Computerization, Work, and Organizations","Selected topics in the influence of computerization and information systems in transforming work and organizations. Theories of organization and organizational change. Processes by which diverse information technologies influence changes in work and organizations over short and long time periods.","IN4MATX 251 or IN4MATX 261"],"IN4MATX 265":["IN4MATX","Theories of Information Society ","Social and economic conceptions of information technology. Macrosocial and economic conditions that foster changes in information technologies. Social construction of information and computer technology in professional worlds. Theories of information technology and large-scale social change.","IN4MATX 251 or IN4MATX 261"],"IN4MATX 267":["IN4MATX","Digital Media and Society","Selected topics in the technological and social aspects of online interactions, and policy including online games, social media, electronic activism, e-commerce, and digital libraries. Media-theoretic approaches to digital technology. Architectures, infrastructure considerations, and their consequences.","IN4MATX 251 or IN4MATX 261"],"IN4MATX 273":["IN4MATX","Information Technology in Global Sustainability","Explores the relationship between recent developments in information technology and the global transition to sustainability. Topics include the role of IT systems in the provision of human needs and wants (e.g., smart grids, food systems, and other IT-enabled infrastructure).",""],"IN4MATX 280":["IN4MATX","Overview of Human-Computer Interaction and Design ","Introduction to human-computer interaction and user-centered design. The material is focused on laying the groundwork for understanding the history, importance, and methods of human-computer interaction and design.",""],"IN4MATX 281":["IN4MATX","User Needs Analysis ","Understanding the user's context, needs, and preferences. Topics include interviews and observations, modeling the context, flow, culture, space, and artifacts involved in an endeavor, ways of aggregating what is found, and presenting these findings to others.","IN4MATX 280"],"IN4MATX 282":["IN4MATX","Design and Prototyping ","Introduction to user-centered design and prototyping. Focused on practical methods for interaction design. Topics include the nature of design and the challenges to creating and evaluating good designs, as well specific skills for designing interactive systems.","IN4MATX 280"],"IN4MATX 283":["IN4MATX","User Experience Evaluation ","Evaluating prototypes and completed systems. Topics include comparative analysis, laboratory experiments, heuristic evaluation, cognitive walkthroughs, surveys, clickstreams, and help-desk.","IN4MATX 280"],"IN4MATX 284":["IN4MATX","Advanced Design and Prototyping ","Develop and communicate interactive technology design prototypes. Moving concepts from brainstorming and paper prototypes to wireframe and limited functionality mock-ups.","IN4MATX 282"],"IN4MATX 285":["IN4MATX","Interactive Technology Studio ","Technologies, languages, and skills required for creating prototypes to communicate interactive technology concepts. Topics include HTTP, CSS, CSS scripting, AJAX, Design Patterns, Javascript, Javascript libraries such as jQuery, SQL, MVC, and cloud architectures.","IN4MATX 280"],"IN4MATX 286":["IN4MATX","Innovations in HCI and Design ","Recent social and technological developments in human-computer interaction and design. Topics will vary as the field progresses but include novel input techniques, novel platforms, and innovations in theory and methods of design.","IN4MATX 280"],"IN4MATX 287":["IN4MATX","Capstone Project in HCI and Design ","Group project that reinforces all concepts learned in this program, including knowing where user experience work is most appropriate and essential, and executing the appropriate steps.","IN4MATX 283 and IN4MATX 284"],"IN4MATX 288":["IN4MATX","Capstone Project and Portfolio ","Completion of capstone projects and development of portfolios. Ideation, critique, development, and critique.","IN4MATX 287"],"IN4MATX 289":["IN4MATX","Special Topics in Applying Human-Computer Interaction and Design in Industry","Selected topics related to understanding and applying human-computer interaction and design concepts and practices within the User Experience industry. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"IN4MATX 290":["IN4MATX","Research Seminar","Forum for presentation and criticism by students of research work in progress. Presentation of problem areas and related work. Specific goals and progress of research.",""],"IN4MATX 291S":["IN4MATX","Literature Survey in Software Engineering","Reading and analysis of relevant literature in Software Engineering under the direction of a faculty member.",""],"IN4MATX 295":["IN4MATX","Special Topics in Informatics","Studies in selected areas of informatics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"IN4MATX 298":["IN4MATX","Thesis Supervision","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the M.S. thesis option or the dissertation requirements for the Ph.D. program.",""],"IN4MATX 299":["IN4MATX","Individual Study","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"I&C SCI 3":["I&C SCI","Internet Technologies and their Social Impact","Examines current Internet technologies and social implications at the individual, group, and societal level. Blogs, wikis, sharing of video, photos, and music, e-commerce, social networking, gaming, and virtual environments. Issues include privacy, trust, identity, reputation, governance, copyright, and malicious behavior.",""],"I&C SCI 4":["I&C SCI","Human Factors for the Web","Principles of human-computer interaction in evaluating, designing, and developing information presented on the World Wide Web. User characteristics, usability analysis, navigation and organization. Color, typography, multimedia, information visualization, prototyping, user studies, evaluation strategies. Web accessibility.",""],"I&C SCI 5":["I&C SCI","Global Disruption and Information Technology","Explores how new forms of information technology may support transition to a sustainable civilization. Topics include design and implementation of IT systems, science of global change, online community building, and \"green IT\". Activities involve reading, writing, discussion, and final project.",""],"I&C SCI 6B":["I&C SCI","Boolean Logic and Discrete Structures","Relations and their properties; Boolean algebras, formal languages; finite automata.","High school mathematics through trigonometry."],"I&C SCI 6D":["I&C SCI","Discrete Mathematics for Computer Science","Covers essential tools from discrete mathematics used in computer science with an emphasis on the process of abstracting computational problems and analyzing them mathematically. Topics include mathematical induction, combinatorics, and recurrence relations.","Recommended: I&C SCI 6B"],"I&C SCI 6N":["I&C SCI","Computational Linear Algebra","Matrices and linear transformations, systems of linear equations, determinants, linear vector spaces, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, orthogonal matrices, diagonalization, and least squares. Topics taught primarily from an algorithmic perspective, including computational solutions, applications, and numerical error analysis.","I&C SCI 31 or I&C SCI 32A or AP Computer Science A. AP Computer Science A with a minimum score of 3"],"I&C SCI 7":["I&C SCI","Spreadsheets for Problem-Solving","Features useful tools for building, solving, analyzing, and visualizing computational models in diverse areas. Covered features include data entry and protection; numerical, logical and relational computation; displaying, highlighting, and sorting data; storing, summarizing, and querying databases; and VB scripting.",""],"I&C SCI 9":["I&C SCI","Introduction to Computation for Scientists and Engineers","Introduces principles, techniques, and computational tools for quantitative approach to basic problem solving in physics and engineering. Project-based course that actively explores how programing techniques are used for solving STEM real-world problems.","r corequisite: MATH 2A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"I&C SCI 10":["I&C SCI","How Computers Work","Introduction to digital computer and communication systems. Capabilities and limitations of information technology. Representing information in digital form. Overview of computer organization, internet, operating systems, software. Human-computer interaction and social impact.",""],"I&C SCI 11":["I&C SCI","The Internet and Public Policy","How the Internet works. Current public policy issues concerning the Internet. Introductory economics. Communications law. Interactions between information technology, economics, and law. Case studies about Internet and communications policy.",""],"I&C SCI 20":["I&C SCI","Invitation to Computing","Foundational principles of computer science for students with no computing background that are interested in a related career. Big ideas of computing explored, including programming through use of sequential, conditional, iterative logic. Good computational practices, problem solving, and organization discussed.",""],"I&C SCI 31":["I&C SCI","Introduction to Programming","Introduction to fundamental concepts and techniques for writing software in a high-level programming language. Covers the syntax and semantics of data types, expressions, exceptions, control structures, input\/output, methods, classes, and pragmatics of programming.",""],"I&C SCI 32":["I&C SCI","Programming with Software Libraries","Construction of programs for problems and computing environments more varied than in I&C SCI 31. Using library modules for applications such as graphics, sound, GUI, database, Web, and network programming. Language features beyond those in I&C SCI 31 are introduced as needed.","I&C SCI 31. I&C SCI 31 with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 32A":["I&C SCI","Python Programming and Libraries (Accelerated)","Introduces Python syntax and semantics for fundamental programming concepts.  Constructing programs for varied problems and environments. Using library modules for applications such as graphics, sound, GUI, database, Web, and network programming. Accelerated course for students with previous programming background.","AP Computer Science A. AP Computer Science A with a minimum score of 3. Placement via a transfer course in computer programming or equivalent experience may also be accepted upon review."],"I&C SCI 33":["I&C SCI","Intermediate Programming","Intermediate-level language features and programming concepts for larger, more complex, higher-quality software. Functional programming, name spaces, modules, class protocols, inheritance, iterators, generators, operator overloading, reflection. Analysis of time and space efficiency.","I&C SCI 32 or CSE 42 or I&C SCI 32A. I&C SCI 32 with a grade of C or better. CSE 42 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 32A with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 45C":["I&C SCI","Programming in C\/C++ as a Second Language","An introduction to the lexical, syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic characteristics of the C\/C++ languages for experienced programmers. Emphasis on object-oriented programming, using standard libraries, and programming with manual garbage collection.","I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43 or EECS 40. I&C SCI 33 with a grade of C or better. CSE 43 with a grade of C or better. EECS 40 with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 45J":["I&C SCI","Programming in Java as a Second Language","An introduction to the lexical, syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic characteristics of the Java language for experienced programmers. Emphasis on object-oriented programming, using standard libraries, and programming with automatic garbage collection.","I&C SCI 33 or CSE 43. I&C SCI 33 with a grade of C or better. CSE 43 with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 46":["I&C SCI","Data Structure Implementation and Analysis","Focuses on implementation and mathematical analysis of fundamental data structures and algorithms. Covers storage allocation and memory management techniques.","CSE 45C or I&C SCI 45C. CSE 45C with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 45C with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 51":["I&C SCI","Introductory Computer Organization","Multilevel view, design, and operation of computer system components. Machine-level data and instruction representation. Instruction sets and addressing modes. Memory organization. Laboratory work using low-level programming languages.","I&C SCI 33 and I&C SCI 6B"],"I&C SCI 53":["I&C SCI","Principles in System Design","Introduces basic principles of system software: operating systems, compilers, and networking. Exposure to the following topics through theoretical and practical programming experiences: linking and loading, process and memory management, concurrency and synchronization, network communication, programming for performance, etc.","I&C SCI 46 and I&C SCI 51. I&C SCI 46 with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 51 with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 60":["I&C SCI","Games and Society","The study and critical analysis of computer games as art objects, cultural artifacts, gateways to virtual worlds, educational aids, and tools for persuasion and social change. Emphasis on understanding games in their historical and cultural context.  Materials fee.",""],"I&C SCI 61":["I&C SCI","Game Design Fundamentals","Explore the fundamentals of game design through the design and play of simple analog game systems. Students explore the principles and usage of game design elements through hands-on projects emphasizing iteration and playtesting in a creative game design community.",""],"I&C SCI 62":["I&C SCI","Game Technologies and Interactive Media","Technologies for interactive media and game design. Web-based software systems, virtual world platforms, and game engines. Emphasis is on conceptual and architectural aspects of these technologies.",""],"I&C SCI 80":["I&C SCI","Special Topics in Information and Computer Science","Studies in selected areas of information and computer sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary. "],"I&C SCI 90":["I&C SCI","New Students Seminar","Introduces students to the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences. Focuses on advising students making the transition to UCI, community building, and mostly surveying the technical areas within departments in ICS, via talks by faculty on their research.",""],"I&C SCI 139W":["I&C SCI","Critical Writing on Information Technology","Study and practice of critical writing and oral communication as it applies to information technology. Each student writes assignments of varying lengths, totaling at least 4,000 words.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"I&C SCI 161":["I&C SCI","Game Engine Lab","The use of an open source game or graphics engine in the design and implementation of a computer game. Principles of game engine design. Students work on teams to design, implement, and evaluate new computer games based on an engine.","I&C SCI 45C or CSE 45C or GDIM 32"],"I&C SCI 162":["I&C SCI","Modeling and World Building","Use of 3D modeling software and related tools to design and create animated, textured models, and expansive virtual worlds incorporating objects, scenes, and venues for activity within game worlds and online environments.","r corequisite: I&C SCI 33 and (I&C SCI 6N or MATH 3A) and I&C SCI 61"],"I&C SCI 163":["I&C SCI","Mobile and Ubiquitous Games","Design and technology of mobile games, including mixed reality gaming, urban games, and locative media. Case studies of significant systems. Uses and limitations of location-based technologies. Infrastructures and their relationships to gameplay and design.","I&C SCI 61 and (I&C SCI 10 or I&C SCI 31 or I&C SCI 32A)"],"I&C SCI 166":["I&C SCI","Game Design","Game design takes into consideration psychology, narrative, platform features and limitations, marketing, computer science capabilities, human-computer interface principles, industry trends, aesthetic judgment, and other factors. Students focus on video game design through lectures, readings, presentations, implementation, and play testing.","I&C SCI 61 or GDIM 25"],"I&C SCI 167":["I&C SCI","Multiplayer Game Systems","Foundations and technologies that enable multiuser, networked, and persistent virtual environments. Emphasis on database design and management, network protocols, and concurrency control to accommodate large numbers of simultaneous users.","I&C SCI 51 or GDIM 31"],"I&C SCI 168":["I&C SCI","Multiplayer Game Project","Design and develop a multiplayer game using Unity or similar engine, with a focus on learning to work in a development team, writing design documents, working with platform features and limitations, developing engaging mechanics, playtesting, and post-mortems.","GDIM 27 and GDIM 33 and GDIM 51 and GDIM 61. GDIM 27 with a grade of C or better. GDIM 33 with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 169A":["I&C SCI","Capstone Game Project I","Students work in teams to design and implement a unique game or interactive experience. Emphasis on sound, art, and level design, building a community, production values, full utilization of hardware and software platform, and current industry trends.","I&C SCI 168 or (GDIM 131 and GDIM 161). GDIM 161 with a grade of C or better"],"I&C SCI 169B":["I&C SCI","Capstone Game Project II","Students continue work in teams to design and implement a unique game or interactive experience. Emphasis on sound, art, and level design, building a community, production values, full utilization of hardware and software platform, and current industry trends.","GDIM 167A or I&C SCI 169A. GDIM 167A with a grade of C or better. I&C SCI 169A with a grade of C or better. In Progress grade for GDIM 167A or I&C SCI 169A also accepted."],"I&C SCI 192":["I&C SCI","Industrial or Public Sector Field Study","Students participate in an off-campus, supervised internship for a minimum of 60 hours. Students apply classroom knowledge through internship projects in the private sector or nonprofit agencies.",""],"I&C SCI 193":["I&C SCI","Tutoring in ICS","Principles and practice of providing technical assistance to novice learners in information and computer sciences.",""],"I&C SCI H197":["I&C SCI","Honors Seminar","An overview of computer science and selected recent trends in research. Students attend talks on current faculty research, with opportunities for discussion.",""],"I&C SCI 398A":["I&C SCI","Teaching Assistant Training Seminar","Theories, methods, and resources for teaching computer science at the university level, particularly by teaching assistants. Classroom presentations, working with individuals, grading, motivating students. Participants will give and critique presentations and may be videotaped while teaching.",""],"I&C SCI 399":["I&C SCI","University Teaching","Involves on-the-job experience for Teaching Assistants.",""],"INNO 202":["INNO","Leadership for Entrepreneurs","Assists experienced and inexperienced entrepreneurs with some of the challenges of managing others, and helps them build their understanding and skills so they can become more successful managers of people.",""],"INNO 203":["INNO","Financial Accounting for Entrepreneurs","Provides the building blocks of financial accounting that are essential to entrepreneurs. Covers financial ratios and statements, including forecasting financial statements, basic transaction analysis, and generally accepted accounting principles.",""],"INNO 205":["INNO","Marketing for Entrepreneurs","Develops familiarity with fundamental concepts, theories, and techniques in marketing, and acquaints students with the type of decisions made by marketing managers including customer targeting, product, pricing, placement, promotion, and research.",""],"INNO 209":["INNO","Managerial Finance for Entrepreneurs","Provides the building blocks of finance knowledge that are essential to entrepreneurs.  Covers investment and financing decisions, including the time value of money, cash flow creation, cost of capital, and capital budgeting.",""],"INNO 211":["INNO","MIE Pre-Accelerator ","Prepares students for the New Venture Competition in spring quarter. Students form teams to create a startup, submit concept paper, pitch ideas, and attend workshops throughout the academic year.",""],"INNO 212":["INNO","Business Growth Strategies for Entrepreneurs","Focuses on management of growth opportunities in industries where applied innovation, usually in the form of technology, people, or processes, creates distinct competitive advantages.",""],"INNO 214":["INNO","Entrepreneurship","Student teams develop a business plan to launch a new venture. Drafts of sections of the plan are due throughout the course.",""],"INNO 215":["INNO","Lean Startup","Exposes students to an entrepreneurial experience with the same pressures and demands of an early-stage startup to provide a real-world, hands-on learning experience in starting a company.",""],"INNO 218":["INNO","Venture Capital for Entrepreneurs","Overview of venture capital and private equity, which constitute the alternative asset class (as opposed to conventional investments). Many start-up and entrepreneurial firms require substantial capital, and venture capital and private equity organizations finance these high-risk but potentially high-reward companies.",""],"INNO 252D":["INNO","New Product Development for Entrepreneurs","Designed to introduce the new product development process and techniques to identify markets, develop new product ideas, measure consumer preferences, position and design new products, and test them prior to launch. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"INNO 257":["INNO","Marketing on the Internet for Entrepreneurs","Examines impact of the internet on traditional methods of marketing. Discusses how to capitalize on and increase the internet's utility as a tool that can increase marketing effectiveness, efficiency, and competitiveness. Evening or weekend course format.",""],"INNO 275":["INNO","Innovation Internship","Students apply innovative and creative knowledge obtained from classroom theory through work experiences. Provides knowledge of career opportunities, an understanding of the role innovation plays in business environments, and preparation to become an entrepreneur.",""],"INNO 290":["INNO","Special Topics in Innovation and Entrepreneurship","Studies in selected areas of innovation and entrepreneurship. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"INNO 292":["INNO","Business Law for Entrepreneurs","Focuses on educating individuals starting, or investing in, a new business in the U.S. Provides an overview to common legal issues faced by entrepreneurs, such as business formation and structure, governance and employment contracts, and intellectual property and taxation.",""],"INNO 294":["INNO","Edge: Innovation in the New Digital Age","Explores the strategic and operational issues that business leaders face in adapting to the new business environment, what we call innovating, managing, and competing at the edge.",""],"INNO 298":["INNO","Merage Consulting Projects for Entrepreneurs","Provides students the opportunity to put into practice concepts, skills, and tools acquired in other parts of the MBA program. Seminars augment internship experiences with analyses of relevant administrative issues.",""],"INNO 299":["INNO","Individual Study","Individual study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"INTL ST 1":["INTL ST","Introduction to Global Studies","Ongoing historical processes that increase global integration, the social, economic, and political interdependence of different regions, cultures, and peoples. Topics include ancient empires, colonialism, nationalism, industrialization, modern imperialism and warfare, decolonization, global social movements, conflict, inequality, and global governance.",""],"INTL ST 11":["INTL ST","Global Cultures and Society","Offers a general overview of the rise of global interdependence in political, economic, demographic, and cultural terms. Considers what drove people from relative isolation into intensified intercourse with one another, and investigates the consequences of this shift.",""],"INTL ST 12":["INTL ST","Global Political Ideologies","An overview of the major political ideologies shaping the current world order and global conflict. Topics include liberalism, democracy, nationalism, capitalism, communism, socialism, fascism, neoliberalism, clash of civilizations, sectarian violence, populist nationalism, and de-globalization.",""],"INTL ST 13":["INTL ST","Global Economy","Acquaints students with the fundamental patterns of the global economy. Emphasizes the historical roots and political implications of economic choices.",""],"INTL ST 14":["INTL ST","Introduction to International Relations","Analysis of political relations between and among nations with emphasis on explanations of conflict and cooperation. The role of ideologies and their relation to international problems are also examined.",""],"INTL ST 15":["INTL ST","Global Political Economy","The global economy as an integrated system. The rise of world trade, capitalism, national economies, market cycles, competing economic ideologies, development, globalization, transnational labor, multinational corporations, and the role of UN, World Bank, WTO, and the IMF in global governance.",""],"INTL ST 16":["INTL ST","Human Rights and Global Governance","Historical development of civil, political rights and the rise of human rights in international law. Explores role, and limitations, of the UN, ICJ, and ICC in global governance. Reconceptualizing democracy and political representation in a postnational 21st century.",""],"INTL ST 17":["INTL ST","Global Environmental Issues","Examines problems such as global climate change, growing human populations, fisheries depletion, ocean acidification, biodiversity loss, deforestation, and food security. Introduces political, social, and economic factors contributing to environmental issues and their disproportional impacts on the world's poor and minorities.",""],"INTL ST 100":["INTL ST","Global Trials","Explores landmark legal trials that have impacted both domestic and world affairs.The trials provide a lens through which to explore society at the time, as well as shed light on the historical legacies of current social, political, and legal values.",""],"INTL ST 101A":["INTL ST","Global Social Movements","The evolution of global social movements over past 250 years. Age of Revolutions in America, France, and Haiti; nationalism and labor; 1960s global decolonization; 21st century Latin American indigenous movements; Occupy Wall Street, Arab Spring, and social media's #metoo, #BlackLivesMatter.",""],"INTL ST 101B":["INTL ST","Global Cities and Slums","Cities as a window into contemporary challenges of the globalized world. Global cities such as Los Angeles, London, and Beijing compared with cities with slums in the global south such as Rio de Janeiro, Johannesburg, and Mumbai.",""],"INTL ST 102A":["INTL ST","Global Refugees and Stateless People","Examines the reason behind global refugee crises, and what it means to be a displaced migrant or stateless person in history and in contemporary society. Links case studies about refugees around the world.",""],"INTL ST 102B":["INTL ST","Global Asias and Orientalism","Examines how the modern world is divided between East and West in the age of globalization. Through the postcolonial framework of Orientalism, it considers a pluralistic idea of Asia and the current notion of the new world order as one.",""],"INTL ST 103A":["INTL ST","Case Studies in Global and Planetary Health","Explores critical global health and planetary health studies, linking past trends to current research of health inequalities. Case studies include maternal-fetal mortality, environmental contamination, disaster preparedness, pharmaceutical development and access, and humanitarian aid interventions.",""],"INTL ST 104A":["INTL ST","Global Trafficking","Explores trafficking in different global contexts. Covers sex trafficking, labor trafficking, and organ trafficking. Tracks the use of the concept in policy, human rights, law, humanitarianism, and media. Provides a complex and nuanced understanding of the problem and its solutions.",""],"INTL ST 104BW":["INTL ST","Global Gender and Sexuality","Develops critical insights into gender and sexuality as products of the world around us and as lived experiences across the globe. Topics include agency and resistance, intersectionality, feminisms, colonialism, heteronormativity, gender violence, masculinities, media and popular culture, globalization and migration.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"INTL ST 106A":["INTL ST","Global Political Ecology","Introduction to political ecology and critical analysis of the global scale and globalization. Topics include current and historical climate change, fossil fuels, international trade and investment, soil erosion and pollution, deforestation, waste, ocean ecology, water crisis, wars, revolutions, and refugees.",""],"INTL ST 106B":["INTL ST","Global Food Environment","Examines the global political ecology of food, focusing on the U.S., China, and Brazil. Topics include the history of agriculture, imperialism\/neocolonialism, Malthusianism, migration, agro-industrialization, deforestation, GMOs, agrochemicals, soil and water contamination, land struggles, food security\/safety\/sovereignty, dietary habits, and climate change.",""],"INTL ST 111B":["INTL ST","World of Coffee       ","History of consumption and production of coffee over the centuries, and coffee's cultural, economic, social, political consequences. Coffee's social life as a drug, symbol of hospitality, religious rite, sociability and bourgeois lifestyle, commodity, source of livelihoods, imperial revenues, corporate profits.",""],"INTL ST 112A":["INTL ST","International Business","Introduction to conducting business in the international arena, decision making in the organization, and globalization of markets and production.  Topics covered range from tax and finance to ethics, marketing, and more.  Continuing corporate regulatory scandals discussed.",""],"INTL ST 115":["INTL ST","Global Poverty and Inequality in the 21st Century","Explores a multidisciplinary understanding of poverty and inequality in the 21st century and assesses impact of education, health, technology, and other interventions. Course offered online only.",""],"INTL ST 122":["INTL ST","Nuclear Environments","Understanding the impact of the nuclear age on the environment and human health through interrelated developments of nuclear power and nuclear weapons. The early years of weapon development, catastrophic environmental pollution, perils of nuclear power in the U.S. and Russia.",""],"INTL ST 124A":["INTL ST","Introduction to the Comparative Study of Legal Cultures","Traces the anthropological and comparative cultural study of law from the nineteenth century to the present; briefly surveys the diversity of recorded legal cultures and critically examines key concepts which have been used to describe and classify them.",""],"INTL ST 130":["INTL ST","Transnational Gangs","Examines the internationalization of U.S. domestic street gangs.  The relationship between California gangs Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street and Mexico\/Central American gangs is assessed.  Specified topics include:  mobilization, migration, territorialism, culture, organization, and use of technology.",""],"INTL ST 141B":["INTL ST","Homeland Security    ","Examines the 9\/11 origins of the concept of homeland security; assess the evolution, structure, and operations of the Department of Homeland Security; critically examines the evolution of threat assessment to the U.S. and the utilization of risk management methodologies.",""],"INTL ST 143A":["INTL ST","Vietnam War","Examines social structures and social changes in Vietnamese and U.S. societies through the study of the Vietnam War.",""],"INTL ST 145A":["INTL ST","International Law","Examination of the origin, changing structure, application of international law, and the role of legal norms in regulating the behavior of states and maintaining international order.","POL SCI 71A"],"INTL ST 146":["INTL ST","Global Indigeneity","Situates the interdisciplinary fields of Native American and Indigenous Studies within a transnational context, focusing on the global dimensions of Indigeneity informing local histories, politics, and experiences. Examines settler colonialism, sovereignty, and the enduring legacies of colonialism as global phenomena.",""],"INTL ST 147CW":["INTL ST","International Humanitarianism","Examines, analyzes, and evaluates the humanitarian phenomenon, the actors involved in it (including states, international organizations (IOs), and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)), the rise of a body of international humanitarian law, and the problems and debates associated with international humanitarianism today.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"INTL ST 148W":["INTL ST","Global Futures","Develops critical insights into our collective future as it reflects different perspectives of the world. Topics include techno-orientalism, afro-futurism, feminist futures, indigenous cosmology, and environmental concerns.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"INTL ST 150":["INTL ST","Racism and Global Apartheid","The concept of race has been used to draw a global color line dividing rich from poor, developed from developing, first from third worlds. Racism is used to justify slavery, colonialism, imperialism, eugenics, genocide, and extreme inequalities produced by globalization.",""],"INTL ST 151B":["INTL ST","Religion and World Politics","Examines the relationship between religion and world politics historically and today, focusing on connections with peace\/war, democracy, human rights, secularism(s), and globalization. Covers major debates, scholarship, concepts, and theories through class exercises, exams, and essays.","POL SCI 41A or INTL ST 11 or INTL ST 12 or REL STD 5A or REL STD 5B or REL STD 5C"],"INTL ST 152A":["INTL ST","Non-Government Organization (NGO) Fundamentals","Introduction to non-governmental organizations, including their role in U.S. society and the international community. Explores varying definitions of NGOs and the characteristics held in common by all NGOs.",""],"INTL ST 153F":["INTL ST","Militarism and Gender","Examination of feminist approaches to militarism, war, and political violence; drawing on representations of women as both victims of and participants in military violence; effects of militarism on formations of gender; effects of military industrial complex on nationalism and identity.",""],"INTL ST 154W":["INTL ST","Ethics and Justice in International Affairs","Analyzes choices regarding the use of force, resolving conflict, and promoting human rights and social justice. Special attention is given to the American experience as a principal case study of ethics and statecraft.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"INTL ST 155":["INTL ST","Racial Capitalism","Explores the historical relationship between racism and capitalism. Social movements such as Black Lives Matter highlight the contemporary political economy of racial capitalism, and the relationship between domestic policing and international militarization as twin sides of global racial hegemony.",""],"INTL ST 157C":["INTL ST","Comparing European and US Societies","Society, culture, institutions of U.S. and European countries. Fertility to football, guns to government, work to welfare, health to housework. Cross-national approaches for understanding the world and thinking critically about taken-for-granted practices. Policies the U.S. might borrow for social issues.",""],"INTL ST 158B":["INTL ST","Peoples of the Pacific","The cultural history and recent developments among the Pacific peoples of Polynesia, Micronesia, Melanesia, New Guinea, and Australia.",""],"INTL ST 158D":["INTL ST","China in the Global Age","Chinese society from 1949 to present. Social change in the context of political control and ideological considerations. Focus on the power structure, political decision processes, and ideological legitimation, and interplay with the Chinese community and its culture.",""],"INTL ST 161A":["INTL ST","Political Islam","Political Islamd is a diverse phenomenon. While noticeable barriers exist to \"Islamist democracy,\" it is the Islamists who will define the political future of much of the Muslim world. Reviews the experience of Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Turkey, and Indonesia.",""],"INTL ST 162B":["INTL ST","Peoples and Cultures of Post-Soviet Eurasia","Examines the cultures and political conflicts of the more than 130 indigenous ethnic groups in the European and Asian territories of the former U.S.S.R. Emphasis is on the theoretical issues of ethnicity, nationalism, and conflict management.",""],"INTL ST 163":["INTL ST","Global Inequalities","An examination of various forms of social, economic, and political inequality within and between nations. Different approaches to understanding inequality and the intersections of poverty, race, ethnicity, class, gender, nationality, health, and violence.",""],"INTL ST 165":["INTL ST","Introduction to Contemporary Middle East Politics","An overview of basic issues that shape the politics of the Middle East and North Africa. Themes include implication of the colonization era, nation-state formation, inter-Arab relations, nationalism, Arab-Israel conflict, Islamic resurgence, and more.",""],"INTL ST 175A":["INTL ST","U","Analyzes the United States war on terrorism by focusing on terrorism, the U.S. wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and changes in police powers through the Patriot Act, as well as the political leadership which directs the war.",""],"INTL ST 176C":["INTL ST","Political Power in Contemporary China","Analyzes the sources of political power in contemporary China, including historical legitimacy, political institutions, and Chinese Communist Party power. Identifies challenges to the CCP's rule and rising socio-political issues such as mass protest, censorship, and the environment.",""],"INTL ST 177C":["INTL ST","Revolution in Latin America","Presents a comparative analysis of the causes, development, and consequences of selected revolutionary movements, focusing on outbreaks in Mexico, Bolivia, Cuba, Chile, Nicaragua, and Grenada.  Explores topics of state formation, economic nationalism, social justice, ethnicity, and role of international affairs.",""],"INTL ST 177D":["INTL ST","U","Explores political, economic, social, and cultural ties that bind Latin America to the United States. Focuses on U.S. intervention and Latin American response from early nineteenth century to present day. Case studies include Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, Chile, and Central America.",""],"INTL ST 177E":["INTL ST","Cuban Society and Revolution","Explores the causes, development, and legacy of the 1959 Revolution. Themes include economic dependency, democracy, race, gender, culture, and the always volatile relations between Cuba and the United States.",""],"INTL ST 177G":["INTL ST","Revolution and Reaction in Cold War Latin America","Explores Latin American experiences of revolutionary change and military dictatorship during the Cold War (1945-1990). Pays particular attention to the lives of women, peasants, workers, and the urban middle classes. Case studies include Guatemala, Cuba, Chile, Argentina, Nicaragua, and Mexico.",""],"INTL ST 177I":["INTL ST","Ancient Civilization of Mexico and the Southwest","The prehistory and cultural evolution of the civilization which originated in Mexico, including the Olmecs, Aztecs, Toltecs, Maya, and Zapotec, as well as the Pueblos of the Southwestern U.S. Topics include the origins of food production and of the state.",""],"INTL ST 179":["INTL ST","Special Topics: Geographic Focus in International Studies","Studies in selected areas of international studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"INTL ST H180":["INTL ST","International Studies Honors Research Seminar","Assists students to prepare a thesis prospectus for the Honors Program in International Studies. Students choose a topic, learn writing and research methods, write a prospectus and orally present and defend it, and conduct a literature review.",""],"INTL ST 183A":["INTL ST","Global and International Studies Forum","A faculty-student forum featuring lectures from a variety of institutions with discussion issues related to Global and International Studies.",""],"INTL ST 183B":["INTL ST","Seminar in Mediation","Student develop mediation skills and refine knowledge in the practice and theory of conflict resolution. Students who complete this course may serve as mediators in the Campus Mediation Program. Course is a prerequisite to completing Indep Study as an intern.",""],"INTL ST 183CW":["INTL ST","Seminar Conflict Resolution","Designed for seniors who are pursuing the International Studies major and\/or minor. Provides a forum in which students will refine skills and theory in the study of cooperation and conflict, from local to global arenas. Students write research paper.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"INTL ST 183E":["INTL ST","Conflict Resolution in Cross-Cultural Perspective","Examines theories of conflict management. Analyzes how conflict is mitigated in diverse cultures: at the interpersonal level, between groups, and on the international scale. Students discuss readings, hear from conflict management practitioners, and simulate negotiations.",""],"INTL ST 189":["INTL ST","Special Topics: Global Focus in International Studies","Studies in selected areas of international studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"INTL ST H190":["INTL ST","Honors Thesis","Students work with faculty to complete their honors thesis.",""],"INTL ST 199":["INTL ST","Individual Study","Students participate in planned research and study under written contract with a supervising UCI instructor. Students may enroll for only one individual study course each quarter.",""],"INTL ST 201":["INTL ST","What is Global Studies?","Introduces graduates to the field of global and international studies. Landmark studies outline the transition from globalization studies to contemporary global studies. Identify complex global issues, underlying processes of globalization, and the impacts they have on people around the world.",""],"INTL ST 202":["INTL ST","Foundations of European Social Thought","Provides graduate students with a broad overview of the major landmarks in the development of modern social thought. Introduces key philosophers and theorists Adam Smith, Marx, Durkheim, Weber, Freud, and Du Bois, focusing on the global dimensions of their work.",""],"INTL ST 203":["INTL ST","Globalizing Social Theory in the Age of Extremes","Examines important developments in social theory between 1914 and 1991. The overarching goal is to synthesize from these various approaches a critical and transdisciplinary theoretical framework to analyze complex global issues.",""],"INTL ST 204":["INTL ST","Theories of Globalization","Theories of globalization engage deep historical transformations, keeping the interrelated dynamics of economics, politics, and culture in focus. Theories examine transformations emanating at transnational and state levels, and from below in the form of social movements led by everyday people.",""],"INTL ST 205":["INTL ST","Theories from the Global South","Looking beyond the theoretical traditions of the Euro-American academy scholars can begin to engage important theoretical contributions from the Global South. Explores alternative standpoints and interventions challenging dominant narratives and calling into question taken-for-granted assumptions, categories, concepts, values, and perspectives.",""],"INTL ST 206":["INTL ST","Engaging Global Issues","Critical and interdisciplinary works on global issues serve as examples that graduates can use in their own research. Each week focuses on a different example of outstanding global research done by a scholar having an important impact on the field.",""],"INTL ST 207":["INTL ST","Research Design and Methods ","Fundamentals of empirical research design, strategies for global research, sampling logics, reliability, validity, mixed methods, integrating qualitative and quantitative methods. Introduction to basic data collection methods and examples of more advanced methodological strategies. Research ethics and the IRB review process.",""],"INTL ST 208":["INTL ST","Grant Writing","Focuses on production, critique, and revision of student research proposals. A practical seminar designed to improve student proposals, help students through the application processes, and increase students' chances of obtaining support for their research.",""],"INTL ST 210A":["INTL ST","Proseminar in Global Studies I","Year-long intensive introduction to graduate students to a range of topics pertinent to the field of Global Studies. The guest speakers and topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"INTL ST 210B":["INTL ST","Proseminar in Global Studies II","Year-long intensive introduction to graduate students to a range of topics pertinent to the field of Global Studies. The guest speakers and topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"INTL ST 210C":["INTL ST","Proseminar in Global Studies III","Year-long intensive introduction to graduate students to a range of topics pertinent to the field of Global Studies. The guest speakers and topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"INTL ST 215":["INTL ST","Global Perspectives on Gender and Sexuality","Selected readings introduce students to topics such as queer globalization, global sexual economy, Indigenous feminism, gender regimes, heteronationalism, the straight state, heteropatriarchy, feminist science and environmentalism, and global masculinities.",""],"INTL ST 220":["INTL ST","Global Indigeneity","Examines issues impacting Indigenous peoples in local, national, and global contexts, including the cultural, political, and legal status of Indigeneity and geopolitical struggles over Indigenous territories, challenges such as climate change to Indigenous lifeways, and contemporary struggles for survivance.",""],"INTL ST 260":["INTL ST","Directed Reading and Research","Readings focused on specialized topics in consultation with, and with the consent of, a faculty member. Students are expected to produce a paper based on the readings.",""],"INTL ST 290":["INTL ST","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Global and International Studies faculty.",""],"INTL ST 299":["INTL ST","Independent Study","Independent research with Global and International Studies faculty.",""],"IRAN 231A":["IRAN","History of Zoroastrianism","Reviews major trends in the history of Zoroastrianism.",""],"IRAN 231B":["IRAN","Ancient Persia","Survey of the history of Persia in antiquity.",""],"IRAN 231C":["IRAN","Medieval Persia","A survey of Persian history in the context of Late Antique and Medieval Islamic history.",""],"IRAN 255A":["IRAN","Ancient India","Examines the visual and religious history of the region defined as \"India\" today, but necessarily encompassing modern Bangladesh and Pakistan. Culminates with the supposed Golden Age of the Gupta empire and its far-reaching legacies.",""],"IRAN 255B":["IRAN","Medieval India","Begins with the Gupta period's aesthetic legacies in South Asia's architecture, sculpture, and painting. Explores the dispersal of Islam throughout South Asia, including the Muslim communities of southern India.",""],"IRAN 280":["IRAN","Studies in Old Iranian","Studies in grammars and texts of Old Persian and Avestan.",""],"IRAN 281":["IRAN","Studies in Middle Iranian","Studies in grammars and texts of Middle Iranian languages (e.g., Middle Persian, Parthian, Sogdian, Bactrian).",""],"IRAN 282":["IRAN","Studies in Classical Persian","Studies in the premodern literatures and historical texts of medieval and early modern Persian.",""],"IRAN 290":["IRAN","Special Topics in Premodern Iranian Studies","Studies in selected areas of premodern Iranian Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"IRAN 292":["IRAN","Seminar in Premodern Iranian Studies","Seminar in selected areas of premodern Iranian Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"IRAN 293":["IRAN","Directed Readings in Premodern Iranian Studies","Directed reading on a specific topic agreed upon by student and instructor.",""],"IRAN 294":["IRAN","Curatorial Methods","Development of curatorial methodologies with an instructor in conjunction with curatorial internship or practicum.",""],"IRAN 295":["IRAN","Special Methods","Reading course focused on the development of particular research skills (e.g. archaeological field methods, numismatics, digital humanities) often in conjunction with a practicum.",""],"IRAN 296":["IRAN","Ethics, Law, and Art","Addresses a broad range of ethical and legal issues pertaining to art, ownership, looting and theft, museum policies, and cultural heritage.","Background in Art History or Legal Studies."],"IRAN 297":["IRAN","Directed Readings in Persian\/Iranian Studies","Directed reading on a specific topic agreed upon by student and instructor.",""],"IRAN 298":["IRAN","Special Topics in Persian\/Iranian Studies","Studies in selected areas of Persian\/Iranian Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ITALIAN 1A":["ITALIAN","Fundamentals of Italian","First quarter of first-year Italian in a hybrid or online format. Students are taught to conceptualize in Italian as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian.",""],"ITALIAN 1ABSP":["ITALIAN","Accelerated Fundamentals of Italian for Spanish Speakers","Accelerated first half of first-year Italian for Hispanophone students. Teaches conceptualizing in Italian while learning to read, write, and speak using knowledge of Spanish. Develops awareness of and sensibility to Italian life and culture through reading, viewing, and discussing.","Two years of high school Spanish, one semester of college Spanish, or heritage speaker of Spanish."],"ITALIAN 1B":["ITALIAN","Fundamentals of Italian","Second quarter of first-year Italian in a hybrid or online format. Students are taught to conceptualize in Italian as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian.","ITALIAN 1A. ITALIAN 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into ITALIAN 1B is also accepted."],"ITALIAN 1BC":["ITALIAN","Intensive Italian Fundamentals","Second half of first-year Italian in a time-intensive form. Development of meaningful communicative skills for the purposes of interaction with Italian speakers and beginning study of Italian. Learner-centered approach develops speaking, listening, reading, writing, and cultural skills and knowledge.","ITALIAN 1AB or ITALIAN S1AB or ITALIAN 1B. ITALIAN 1AB with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into ITALIAN 1BC is also accepted."],"ITALIAN 1BCSP":["ITALIAN","Accelerated Fundamentals of Italian for Spanish Speakers","Accelerated second half of first-year Italian for Hispanophone students. Teaches conceptualizing in Italian while learning to read, write, and speak using knowledge of Spanish. Develops awareness of and sensibility to Italian life and culture through reading, viewing, and discussing.","ITALIAN 1ABSP or ITALIAN 1AB or ITALIAN S1AB or ITALIAN 1B. ITALIAN 1ABSP with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN 1AB with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN 1B with a grade of C or better. Two years of high school Spanish, one semester of college Spanish, or heritage speaker of Spanish."],"ITALIAN 1C":["ITALIAN","Fundamentals of Italian","Third quarter of first-year Italian in a hybrid or online format. Students are taught to conceptualize in Italian as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian.","ITALIAN 1B or ITALIAN 1AB or ITALIAN S1AB. ITALIAN 1B with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN 1AB with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into ITALIAN 1C is also accepted."],"ITALIAN 2A":["ITALIAN","Intermediate Italian","First quarter of second-year Italian in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in Italian as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian.","ITALIAN 1C or ITALIAN 1BC or ITALIAN S1BC or ITALIAN 1BCSP. ITALIAN 1C with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN 1BC with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN S1BC with a grade of C or better. ITALIAN 1BCSP with a grade of C or better. Placement into ITALIAN 2A is also accepted."],"ITALIAN 2B":["ITALIAN","Intermediate Italian","Second quarter of second-year Italian in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in Italian as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian.","ITALIAN 2A. ITALIAN 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into ITALIAN 2B is also accepted."],"ITALIAN 2C":["ITALIAN","Intermediate Italian","Third quarter of second-year Italian in a hybrid format. Students are taught to conceptualize in Italian as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Classes are conducted entirely in Italian.","ITALIAN 2B. ITALIAN 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into 2C is also accepted."],"ITALIAN 50":["ITALIAN","Topics in Italian Culture","Examines Italian culture at home and from abroad, in cinema, literature, and popular culture.",""],"ITALIAN 99":["ITALIAN","Special Studies in Italian","Both student and instructor arrive at the theme of the course and the critical approach to be followed in consultation. Intended to offer courses in Italian otherwise unavailable.",""],"ITALIAN 150":["ITALIAN","Topics in Italian Literature and Culture","Major themes, periods, and\/or movements in Italian literature and culture. Taught in English.",""],"ITALIAN 199":["ITALIAN","Tutorial in Italian Literature and Culture","The student must submit a written description of the proposed course to the instructor and the Chair prior to the beginning of the course.",""],"JAPANSE 1A":["JAPANSE","Fundamental Japanese","Students develop listening, speaking, reading, and writing abilities in Japanese for meaningful communication. Content deals with daily life, society, and culture in Japan. Approximately 180 kanji (Chinese characters) are introduced in addition to the hiragana and katakana orthography.","Placement into JAPANSE 1A is accepted."],"JAPANSE 1B":["JAPANSE","Fundamental Japanese","Students develop listening, speaking, reading, and writing abilities in Japanese for meaningful communication. Content deals with daily life, society, and culture in Japan. Approximately 180 kanji (Chinese characters) are introduced in addition to the hiragana and katakana orthography.","JAPANSE 1A or JAPANSE S1AB. JAPANSE 1A with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 1B is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 1C":["JAPANSE","Fundamental Japanese","Students develop listening, speaking, reading, and writing abilities in Japanese for meaningful communication. Content deals with daily life, society, and culture in Japan. Approximately 180 kanji (Chinese characters) are introduced in addition to the hiragana and katakana orthography.","JAPANSE 1B or JAPANSE S1AB. JAPANSE 1B with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 1C is also accepted."],"JAPANSE S1AB":["JAPANSE","Fundamentals of Japanese","First half of first-year Japanese in an intensified form.","Placement into JAPANSE 1A."],"JAPANSE S1BC":["JAPANSE","Fundamentals of Japanese","Second half of first-year Japanese in an intensified form.","JAPANSE S1AB or JAPANSE 1B. JAPANSE S1AB with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 1C is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 2A":["JAPANSE","Intermediate Japanese","Japanese listening, speaking, reading, and writing abilities developed for meaningful communication. Content deals with daily life, society, and culture, including social issues in Japan. Approximately 180 kanji (Chinese characters) are introduced in addition to the 180 characters learned in 1A-B-C.","JAPANSE 1C or JAPANSE S1BC. JAPANSE 1C with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 2A is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 2B":["JAPANSE","Intermediate Japanese","Japanese listening, speaking, reading, and writing abilities developed for meaningful communication. Content deals with daily life, society, and culture, including social issues in Japan. Approximately 180 kanji (Chinese characters) are introduced in addition to the 180 characters learned in 1A-B-C.","JAPANSE 2A. JAPANSE 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 2B is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 2C":["JAPANSE","Intermediate Japanese","Japanese listening, speaking, reading, and writing abilities developed for meaningful communication. Content deals with daily life, society, and culture, including social issues in Japan. Approximately 180 kanji (Chinese characters) are introduced in addition to the 180 characters learned in 1A-B-C.","JAPANSE 2B or JAPANSE S2AB. JAPANSE 2B with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE S2AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 2C is also accepted."],"JAPANSE S2AB":["JAPANSE","Intermediate Japanese","First half of second-year Japanese in an intensified form.","JAPANSE 1C or JAPANSE S1BC. JAPANSE 1C with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 2A is also accepted."],"JAPANSE S2BC":["JAPANSE","Intermediate Japanese","Second half of second-year Japanese in an intensified form.","JAPANSE S2AB or JAPANSE 2B. JAPANSE S2AB with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 2C is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 3A":["JAPANSE","Advanced Japanese","Students are taught to conceptualize in Japanese as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Authentic Japanese texts are used. Approximately 360 kanji (Chinese characters) in addition to the 270 characters learned in 1A-B-C and 2A-B-C are introduced.","JAPANSE 2C or JAPANSE S2BC or placement into JAPANSE 3A. JAPANSE 2C with a grade of C or better. JAPANSE S2BC with a grade of C or better."],"JAPANSE 3B":["JAPANSE","Advanced Japanese","Students are taught to conceptualize in Japanese as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Authentic Japanese texts are used. Approximately 360 kanji (Chinese characters) in addition to the 270 characters learned in 1A-B-C and 2A-B-C are introduced.","JAPANSE 3A. JAPANSE 3A with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 3B is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 3C":["JAPANSE","Advanced Japanese","Students are taught to conceptualize in Japanese as they learn to understand, read, write, and speak. Authentic Japanese texts are used. Approximately 360 kanji (Chinese characters) in addition to the 270 characters learned in first and second year are introduced.","JAPANSE 3B. JAPANSE 3B with a grade of C or better. Placement into JAPANSE 3C is also accepted."],"JAPANSE 100A":["JAPANSE","Classical Japanese","Introduction to classical Japanese grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on reading and analysis of basic texts.","JAPANSE 3C. JAPANSE 3C with a grade of C or better"],"JAPANSE 100B":["JAPANSE","Classical Japanese","Introduction to classical Japanese grammar and vocabulary with emphasis on reading and analysis of basic texts.","JAPANSE 100A. JAPANSE 100A with a grade of C or better"],"JAPANSE 101A":["JAPANSE","Fourth Year Japanese","Continued emphasis on comprehension, grammar, and proficiency in reading, composition, and conversation through intensive study and analysis of a variety of texts.","JAPANSE 3C"],"JAPANSE 101B":["JAPANSE","Fourth Year Japanese","Continued emphasis on comprehension, grammar, and proficiency in reading, composition, and conversation through intensive study and analysis of a variety of texts.","JAPANSE 3C"],"JAPANSE 180":["JAPANSE","Topics in Japanese Literature","Special topics through directed reading in Japanese. Paper required.","JAPANSE 3C. JAPANSE 3C with a grade of C or better"],"JAPANSE 199":["JAPANSE","Independent Study","Investigation of special topics through directed reading in Japanese. Paper required.",""],"JAPANSE 201":["JAPANSE","Readings in Traditional Japanese Prose","Close reading of selected premodern prose texts, including tales, journals, travel journals, essays.","JAPANSE 100B"],"JAPANSE 202":["JAPANSE","Readings in Traditional Japanese Poetry or Drama","Close reading of selected premodern poetic or dramatic texts.","JAPANSE 100B"],"JAPANSE 203":["JAPANSE","Readings in Modern Japanese Literature","Texts include both fiction and nonfiction by important writers, and may be supplemented where needed by literary criticism and cultural-studies texts in English.","JAPANSE 101C"],"JAPANSE 204":["JAPANSE","Readings in Traditional Japanese Literary and Cultural Theory ","Close reading of selected texts involving literary criticism and\/or aesthetics.","JAPANSE 100B"],"JAPANSE 205":["JAPANSE","Readings in Japanese Religion","Close readings of selected Japanese religious texts.","JAPANSE 101C"],"JAPANSE 211A":["JAPANSE","Studies in Traditional Japanese Prose","Studies in selected areas of traditional Japanese prose. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Research paper required.","JAPANSE 100B"],"JAPANSE 211B":["JAPANSE","Studies in Traditional Japanese Prose","Studies in selected areas of traditional Japanese prose. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Research paper required.","JAPANSE 100B and JAPANSE 211A"],"JAPANSE 212A":["JAPANSE","Studies in Traditional Japanese Poetry or Drama","Studies in selected areas of traditional Japanese poetry or drama. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Research paper required.","JAPANSE 100B"],"JAPANSE 212B":["JAPANSE","Studies in Traditional Japanese Poetry or Drama","Studies in selected areas of traditional Japanese poetry or drama. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Research paper required.","JAPANSE 212A"],"JAPANSE 213A":["JAPANSE","Studies in Modern Japanese Literature","A two-quarter, in-depth look at a major author and\/or issue in modern Japanese literature. Seminar format. The first quarter is devoted to reading of the requisite texts; the second quarter, to the writing of a research paper.","JAPANSE 203"],"JAPANSE 213B":["JAPANSE","Studies in Modern Japanese Literature","A two-quarter, in-depth look at a major author and\/or issue in modern Japanese literature. Seminar format. The first quarter is devoted to reading of the requisite texts; the second quarter, to the writing of a research paper.","JAPANSE 203 and JAPANSE 213A"],"JAPANSE 214":["JAPANSE","Studies in Japanese Literary and Cultural Theory","Studies in selected areas of Japanese literary and cultural theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"JAPANSE 215":["JAPANSE","Studies in Japanese Religion","Studies in selected areas of Japanese religion. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Research paper required.","JAPANSE 101C"],"JAPANSE 230":["JAPANSE","Topics in Japanese Literature and Culture","A topical study that addresses important issues in Japanese literature and culture. May focus on a specific writer or writers, or on a specific issue or set of related issues.","JAPANSE 203"],"JAPANSE 290":["JAPANSE","Independent Study","Directed research on topic determined in consultation with faculty member. A term paper or project is required.",""],"JAPANSE 299":["JAPANSE","Dissertation Research","For Students who have been admitted to doctoral candidacy.",""],"KOREAN 1A":["KOREAN","Fundamental Korean","Natural approach with emphasis on the four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing for students with no previous background in Korean. Conducted in both English and Korean.","Placement into KOREAN 1A. "],"KOREAN 1B":["KOREAN","Fundamental Korean","Natural approach with emphasis on the four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing for students with no previous background in Korean. Conducted in both English and Korean.","KOREAN 1A. KOREAN 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 1B is also accepted."],"KOREAN 1C":["KOREAN","Fundamental Korean","Natural approach with emphasis on the four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing for students with no previous background in Korean. Conducted in both English and Korean.","KOREAN 1B or KOREAN S1AB. KOREAN 1B with a grade of C or better. KOREAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 1C is also accepted."],"KOREAN 1KA":["KOREAN","Fundamental Korean for Students with a Previous Background in Korean","Natural approach with emphasis on the four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing for students with a previous background in Korean. Conducted in both English and Korean.","Placement into KOREAN 1KA."],"KOREAN 1KC":["KOREAN","Fundamental Korean for Students with a Previous Background in Korean","Natural approach with emphasis on the four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing for students with a previous background in Korean. Conducted in both English and Korean.","KOREAN 1KB. KOREAN 1KB with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 1KC is also accepted."],"KOREAN S1AB":["KOREAN","Fundamentals of Korean","First half of first-year Korean in an intensified form.","Placement into KOREAN 1A or KOREAN 1KA or KOREAN 1B or KOREAN 1KB. "],"KOREAN S1BC":["KOREAN","Fundamentals of Korean","Second half of first-year Korean in an intensified form.","KOREAN S1AB or KOREAN 1B or KOREAN 1KB. KOREAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 1B with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 1KB with a grade of C or better. Pacement into KOREAN 1C or KOREAN 1KC is also accepted."],"KOREAN 2A":["KOREAN","Intermediate Korean","Designed to develop writing and reading skills as well as communicative skills in authentic situations for students without previous initial background in Korean. Students also introduced to aspects of Korean culture as related to lesson topics and basic Chinese characters.","KOREAN 1C or KOREAN S1BC. KOREAN 1C with a grade of C or better. KOREAN S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 2A is also accepted."],"KOREAN 2B":["KOREAN","Intermediate Korean","Designed to develop writing and reading skills as well as communicative skills in authentic situations for students without previous initial background in Korean. Students also introduced to aspects of Korean culture as related to lesson topics and basic Chinese characters.","KOREAN 2A. KOREAN 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 2B is also accepted."],"KOREAN 2C":["KOREAN","Intermediate Korean","Designed to develop writing and reading skills as well as communicative skills in authentic situations for students without previous initial background in Korean. Students also introduced to aspects of Korean culture as related to lesson topics and basic Chinese characters.","KOREAN 2B. KOREAN 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 2C is also accepted."],"KOREAN 2KA":["KOREAN","Intermediate Korean for Students with a Previous Background in Korean ","Designed to develop writing and reading skills as well as communicative skills in authentic situations for students with previous background in Korean. Students also introduced to aspects of Korean culture as related to lesson topics and basic Chinese characters.","KOREAN 1KC or KOREAN S1BC. KOREAN 1KC with a grade of C or better. KOREAN S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 2KA is also accepted."],"KOREAN 2KB":["KOREAN","Intermediate Korean for Students with a Previous Background in Korean ","Designed to develop writing and reading skills as well as communicative skills in authentic situations for students with previous background in Korean. Students also introduced to aspects of Korean culture as related to lesson topics and basic Chinese characters.","KOREAN 2KA. KOREAN 2KA with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 2KB is also accepted."],"KOREAN 2KC":["KOREAN","Intermediate Korean for Students with a Previous Background in Korean","Designed to develop writing and reading skills as well as communicative skills in authentic situations for students with previous background in Korean. Students also introduced to aspects of Korean culture as related to lesson topics and basic Chinese characters.","KOREAN 2KB. KOREAN 2KB with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 2KC is also accepted."],"KOREAN 3A":["KOREAN","Advanced Korean","Focuses on developing advanced reading\/writing and translation skills with additional instruction in Chinese characters.","KOREAN 2C or KOREAN 2KC or KOREAN S2BC. KOREAN 2C with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 2KC with a grade of C or better. KOREAN S2BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 3A is also accepted."],"KOREAN 3B":["KOREAN","Advanced Korean","Focuses on developing advanced reading, writing, and translation skills.","KOREAN 3A or KOREAN 2C or KOREAN 2KC or KOREAN S2BC. KOREAN 3A with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 2C with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 2KC with a grade of C or better. KOREAN S2BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 3B is also accepted. "],"KOREAN 3C":["KOREAN","Advanced Korean","Focuses on developing advanced reading, writing, and translation skills.","KOREAN 2C or KOREAN 2KC or KOREAN S2BC or KOREAN 3A or KOREAN 3B. KOREAN 2C with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 2KC with a grade of C or better. KOREAN S2BC with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 3A with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 3B with a grade of C or better. Placement into KOREAN 3C is also accepted."],"KOREAN 101A":["KOREAN","Fourth-Year Korean","Continued emphasis on comprehension, grammar, and proficiency in reading, composition, and conversation through intensive study and analysis of a variety of modern texts.","KOREAN 3A or KOREAN 3B or KOREAN 3C. KOREAN 3A with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 3B with a grade of C or better. KOREAN 3C with a grade of C or better"],"KOREAN 199":["KOREAN","Independent Study","Investigation of special topics through directed reading in Korean. Paper required.",""],"LSCI 1":["LSCI","Languages of the World","The world has over 6,000 languages, with an exuberant variety of sounds, words, grammars. Introduction to a representative (about eight), drawn from every continent. Students not expected to learn these languages, but to explore and study their structure and complexity.",""],"LSCI 2":["LSCI","Discovering Language","Explores language's pervasiveness and diversity; demonstrates ways linguistics illuminates language's crucial--albeit hidden--societal role. Issues: self-and group-identification, language death, language in legal and educational settings. Illustrations: spoken and signed languages, varieties of English, Native American languages.",""],"LSCI 3":["LSCI","Introduction to Linguistics","Emphasis on the notion that language is a remarkable achievement of the human mind.  Current insights into the nature of language.  Survey of various subfields of linguistics. Introduction to linguistic analysis.",""],"LSCI 10":["LSCI","Introduction to Phonology","Basic concepts in phonetic description and phonological analysis.","LSCI 3"],"LSCI 20":["LSCI","Introduction to Syntax","Basic concepts in syntactic description and grammatical analysis.","LSCI 3"],"LSCI 43":["LSCI","Introduction to Symbolic Logic","An introduction to the symbolism and methods of the logic of statements, including evaluation of arguments by truth tables, the techniques of natural deduction, and semantic tableaux.",""],"LSCI 51":["LSCI","Acquisition of Language","What children say, what they mean, and what they understand. Theories about the learning of language by one-, two-, and three-year-olds. Comparison of kinds of data on which these theories are based.",""],"LSCI 51B":["LSCI","Foundations of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism","Provides a comprehensive overview of current issues in bilingual education and bilingualism. Topics include dimensions of bilingualism, the effects of bilingualism on children's linguistic and cognitive development, bilingual education programs, literacy, special needs, and assessment.",""],"LSCI 68":["LSCI","Introduction to Language and Culture","Explores what the study of language can reveal about ourselves as bearers of culture. After introducing some basic concepts, examines how cultural knowledge is linguistically organized and how language might shape our perception of the world.",""],"LSCI 99":["LSCI","Special Topics in Language Science","Special Topics at lower-division level.",""],"LSCI 102":["LSCI","Formal Languages and Automata","Formal aspects of describing and recognizing languages by grammars and automata.  Parsing regular and context-free languages. Ambiguity, nondeterminism. Elements of computability; Turning machines, random access machines, undecidable problems, NP-completeness.","(ICS 46 or CSE 46) and MATH 2B and ICS 6B and ICS 6D. ICS 46 with a grade of C or better. CSE 46 with a grade of C or better"],"LSCI 106M":["LSCI","Computational Models of Language Learning","Focuses on using computational models to investigate questions related to language learning. Topics include computational models of language acquisition, principles underlying models of language learning and language change, computational learning theory, and modeling information extraction from language by humans.","LSCI 151. LSCI 151 with a grade of A- or better"],"LSCI 107M":["LSCI","Computational Methods for Language Research","Focuses on computational methods useful for language research. Students become familiar with software and programming languages used for extracting information from electronic datasets and for creating basic simulations of linguistic cognition. No prior programming experience assumed.","PSYC 150 or LSCI 155 or PSYC 156A or LSCI 151"],"LSCI 109":["LSCI","Special Topics in Computational Linguistics","Topics in computational linguistics.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 111":["LSCI","Intermediate Phonology","Fundamentals of phonological theory.  Intensive practice in phonological analysis.","Recommended: LSCI 10"],"LSCI 115":["LSCI","Introduction to Phonetics","Introduces students to fundamental concepts of phonetics. The sound systems of selected languages around the world, including that of English, are described in detail. Students are trained to work with speech sound recognition, phonetic transcription, and language sound production.","LSCI 3"],"LSCI 119":["LSCI","Special Topics in Phonetics\/Phonology","Topics in Phonetics\/Phonology.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 121":["LSCI","Intermediate Syntax","Examines various phenomena within a generative theory of syntax, focusing on the nature of syntactic rules, representations, and constraints. Introduces methods of experimental syntax, providing students hands-on opportunity to recognize the connection(s) between theory and experiential results.","LSCI 20"],"LSCI 124":["LSCI","Current Topics in Syntactic Theory","Research seminar in syntax.  Intensive study of a small number of well-defined topics which have had significant impact on the development of syntactic theory.",""],"LSCI 129":["LSCI","Special Topics in Syntax","Topics in Syntax.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 139":["LSCI","Special Topics in Morphology","Topics in Morphology.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 141":["LSCI","Topics in Philosophy of Language","Selected topics in the philosophy of language, e.g., the nature of meaning, mechanisms of reference, speech acts.",""],"LSCI 142":["LSCI","Introduction to Logic","Introduction to sentence logic, including truth tables and natural deduction; and to predicate logic, including semantics and natural deduction.",""],"LSCI 143":["LSCI","Introduction to Formal Semantics","Introduces students to the analytical tools used in the investigation of natural language semantics. Topics include the truth-conditional approach to meaning, compositionality, scope and anaphora, generalized quantifier theory, and intensionality.","LPS 30 or PHIL 30 or LPS 104 or PHIL 104. LPS 30 with a grade of A- or better. PHIL 30 with a grade of A- or better. LPS 104 with a grade of A- or better. PHIL 104 with a grade of A- or better"],"LSCI 145A":["LSCI","Elementary Set Theory","An introduction to the basic working vocabulary of mathematical reasoning. Topics include sets, Boolean operations, ordered n-tuples, relations, functions, ordinal and cardinal numbers.",""],"LSCI 145B":["LSCI","Metalogic","Introduction to formal syntax (proof theory) and semantics (model theory) for first-order logic, including the deduction, completeness, compactness, and Loewenheim-Skolem theorems.","LSCI 145A or LPS 105A or PHIL 105A"],"LSCI 145C":["LSCI","Undecidability and Incompleteness","Introduction to the formal theory of effective processes, including recursive functions, Turing machines, Church's thesis, and proofs of Goedel's incompleteness theorem for arithmetic, and Church's undecidability theorem for first-order logic.","LSCI 145B or LPS 105B or PHIL 105B"],"LSCI 149":["LSCI","Special Topics in Semantics","Topics in Semantics.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 151":["LSCI","Acquisition of Language II","Focuses on native language learning, exploring the way in which infants and very young children unconsciously uncover the rich systematic knowledge of their native language. Examines both experimental and computational studies that quantitatively investigate the \"how\" of language acquisition.",""],"LSCI 151B":["LSCI","Bilingual Acquisition","Focuses on different forms of bilingualism, including bilingual first language acquisition, early second language acquisition, and late second language acquisition. Research techniques discussed include theoretical, experimental, and computational methods.","LSCI 151 or PSYC 156A. Placement via consent of the instructor is also accepted."],"LSCI 151S":["LSCI","Second Language Acquisition ","Examines a number of theoretical perspectives that attempt to explain second language learning with a focus on adult learners. How universal constraints, individual differences, and social factors influence the task of learning a second language as an adult.","LSCI 3 or SPAN 113B"],"LSCI 152":["LSCI","Acquisition of Language III ","Focuses on native language learning, exploring the way in which infants and very young children unconsciously uncover the rich systematic knowledge of their native language. Examines both experimental and computational studies that quantitatively investigate the \"how\" of language acquisition.",""],"LSCI 155":["LSCI","Psychology of Language","Examines language using the tools of experimental psychology. From sounds to words to spoken and written sentences, explores how language is used in real time, and how its use reveals how it is represented in the mind.","PSYC 7A or PSCI 9 or PSYC 9B or PSCI 11B or LSCI 3"],"LSCI 158":["LSCI","Language and the Brain ","Research analysis on biological bases of human linguistic capacity. Development, focusing on hemispheric specialization, plasticity; localization of specific linguistic functions in adults, with emphasis on study of aphasias; relation of linguistic capacity to general cognitive capacity, considering research on retardation.","(PSYC 7A or PSB 9 or PSYC 9A or PSB 11A) and (PSYC 9B or PSB 11B or BIOL 35 or BIOL N110 or BIOL N115A)"],"LSCI 159":["LSCI","Special Topics in Psycholinguistics","Topics in Psycholinguistics.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 164A":["LSCI","Topics in Romance Languages","Topics in Romance Languages.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 164B":["LSCI","French Phonetics","Study of the sound structure of French.  Introduction to elements of general phonetics, contrastive (French\/English) phonetics, and French phonetics and phonology.  Designed to help students improve their pronunciation.  Also serves as a preparatory course for language teaching.","FREN 1C"],"LSCI 165B":["LSCI","Structure of Japanese","An overview of the linguistic features of modern Japanese. Provides students with a systematic introduction to the nature and characteristics of the language.",""],"LSCI 165L":["LSCI","Language Change, Acquisition, and Complexity","Focuses on models of language change, acquisition, and complexity, looking at the connections between them to explain empirical data relating to the form of existing languages and how languages change over time. Emphasis is placed on computational and mathematical models.","PSYC 156A. PSYC 156A with a grade of A- or better"],"LSCI 168J":["LSCI","Improvisation, Language, and Culture","Addresses improvisation, both in performance and in everyday life. Examines improvisation as the \"flexible regulation\" of everyday behavior by exploring different scholarly treatments of language and interaction, and working on developing actual theatrical improvisation skills.",""],"LSCI 168S":["LSCI","Language and Social Cognition","Explores the relationship between language and cognition in social and cultural contexts. The overall goal is to think through how language structure and use impact how individuals perceive, think about, and understand the world around them.",""],"LSCI 169":["LSCI","Special Topics in Language Studies","Topics in Language Studies.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 172":["LSCI","History of English","Traces the history of English from its roots through its earliest written records and into the present, including fundamental changes in morphology, phonology, syntax, semantics, and vocabulary, as well as social, cultural, and historical forces affecting language.","LSCI 3"],"LSCI 175":["LSCI","Language Origins: Evolution, Genetics, and the Brain","Examines how human language(s) may have originated. Studies pertinent techniques (reconstruction) and addresses related questions, including is our language faculty inborn (i.e., genetically encoded)? Can brain imaging and population genetics research help to unlock this mystery of human evolution?.",""],"LSCI 176":["LSCI","Introduction to Pidgins and Creoles","Explores the linguistic structures of pidgin and creole languages and examines major theories for the surprisingly high degree of similarity found across pidgin and creole languages. Includes sociolinguistic and field methods.","LSCI 3 or SPAN 113A"],"LSCI 179":["LSCI","Special Topics in Historical Linguistics","Topics in Historical Linguistics.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 182V":["LSCI","Language and Literacy","Addresses the linguistic principles and processes that underlie oral and written language proficiency. Emphasis is on how to use phonology, morphology, orthography, semantics, syntax, and pragmatics to support literacy and oral language development for K-12 students.",""],"LSCI 189":["LSCI","Special Topics in Applied Language Science: Writing Skills for Language Science","Topics in Applied Language Science.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 195A":["LSCI","Language Science Research I","Provides students with in-depth experience in different facets of research in language science. It includes theoretical, behavioral, computational, and\/or applied language science topics and methodologies.","Permission of faculty advisor. If this is not the same faculty member as the course instructor, the faculty advisor will coordinate with the course instructor when it comes to assessing the student's research process at the end of each quarter."],"LSCI 195B":["LSCI","Language Science Research II","Provides students with in-depth experience in different facets of research in language science. It includes theoretical, behavioral, computational, and\/or applied language science topics and methodologies."," Permission of faculty advisor. If this is not the same faculty member as the course instructor, the faculty advisor will coordinate with the course instructor when it comes to assessing the student's research process at the end of each quarter."],"LSCI 195C":["LSCI","Language Science Research III","Provides students with in-depth experience in different facets of research in language science. It includes theoretical, behavioral, computational, and\/or applied language science topics and methodologies.","Permission of faculty advisor. If this is not the same faculty member as the course instructor, the faculty advisor will coordinate with the course instructor when it comes to assessing the student's research process at the end of each quarter."],"LSCI 195W":["LSCI","Writing Skills for Language Science","Focuses on written technical communication skills in language science. Topics include the scientific publication process (focusing on research abstracts), how to write for pieces of different lengths, and writing for different audiences.",""],"LSCI 198":["LSCI","Directed Group Study","Directed study with Linguistics faculty.",""],"LSCI 199":["LSCI","Independent Study","Independent research with Linguistics faculty. Students may enroll for only one 199 each quarter.",""],"LSCI 201A":["LSCI","Language Science Research","Involves colloquia and scientific reports by faculty, students, and visitors. Students are exposed to current language science research and gain experience in active listening and scientific discourse.",""],"LSCI 201B":["LSCI","Language Science Research ","Involves colloquia and scientific reports by faculty, students, and visitors. Students are exposed to current language science research and gain experience in active listening and scientific discourse.",""],"LSCI 201C":["LSCI","Language Science Research","Involves colloquia and scientific reports by faculty, students, and visitors. Students are exposed to current language science research and gain experience in active listening and scientific discourse.",""],"LSCI 202A":["LSCI","Skills for Language Science I","Focuses on computational skills for language science research. Topics include computational literacy, programming languages, and database interfaces that are useful for language science research, allowing for general scripting and file manipulation, and enabling statistical analysis and data visualization.",""],"LSCI 202B":["LSCI","Skills for Language Science II","Introduction to the scientific publication process and practice of scientific writing skills.","LSCI 202A"],"LSCI 202C":["LSCI","Skills for Language Science III","Introduction to scientific presentation for audiences of different backgrounds and practice of scientific presentations skills.","LSCI 202B"],"LSCI 202D":["LSCI","Advanced Skills for Language Science ","Practice of advanced professional writing skills, including writing of grants, journal publications, research profiles, academic CVs, teaching statements, and cover letters. Students bring their own academic material to workshop.","LSCI 202A and LSCI 202B and LSCI 202C. LSCI 202A with a grade of B or better. LSCI 202B with a grade of B or better. LSCI 202C with a grade of B or better"],"LSCI 206C":["LSCI","Computational Models of Language Learning","Focuses on computational models of native language learning, exploring how probabilistic learning and inference fare on difficult case studies within language acquisition. In all cases, grounds the learning models in available empirical data and considers their psychological plausibility.","LSCI 251. LSCI 251 with a grade of B- or better"],"LSCI 209":["LSCI","Special Topics in Computational Linguistics","Focuses on ongoing research in linguistics.  Variable units based on course content, as determined by Department.  May be repeated for credit as topic varies.",""],"LSCI 219":["LSCI","Special Topics in Phonetics and Phonology ","Topics in phonetics and phonology.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 229":["LSCI","Special Topics in Syntax","Varied topics in syntax.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 239":["LSCI","Special Topics in Morphology","Topics in morphology.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 248M":["LSCI","Modal Logic","Introduction to modal logic methods and their application.",""],"LSCI 249":["LSCI","Special Topics in Semantics","Varied topics in semantics.",""],"LSCI 250":["LSCI","Psycholinguistics","Examines how language is used in real time, and how its use reveals how it is represented in the mind and the brain.",""],"LSCI 250B":["LSCI","Bilingualism","Examines how bilingualism interfaces with language representation, language use, and language development.",""],"LSCI 250H":["LSCI","Heritage Language Acquistion","Examines how heritage languages are represented in speakers' minds, processed in real time, and acquired.",""],"LSCI 251":["LSCI","Language Acquisition","Focuses on native language learning, exploring the way in which infants and very young children unconsciously uncover the rich systematic knowledge of their native language. Examines both experimental and computational studies that quantitatively investigate the \"how\" of language acquisition.",""],"LSCI 251A":["LSCI","Atypical Acquisition","Focuses on different types of atypical acquisition, including acquisition in special populations and acquisition under atypical circumstances. Research techniques discussed include theoretical, experimental, and computational methods.",""],"LSCI 253M":["LSCI","Experimental Methods for Language Research","Focuses on experimental methods useful for language research. Students become familiar with software and programming languages used for implementing and analyzing behavioral experiments.",""],"LSCI 259":["LSCI","Special Topics in Psycholinguistics","Topics in Psycholinguistics. May be repeated for credit as topic varies.",""],"LSCI 265L":["LSCI","Language Change, Acquisition, and Complexity","Focuses on models of language change, acquisition, and complexity, looking at the connections between them to explain empirical data relating to the form of existing languages and how languages change over time. Emphasis is placed on computational and mathematical models.",""],"LSCI 269":["LSCI","Special Topics in Language Studies","Varied topics in language studies.",""],"LSCI 279":["LSCI","Special Topics in Language Change","Varied topics in language change.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 281L":["LSCI","Language Learning with Digital Media","Provides students with a graduate-level introduction to key issues of digital media in second-language teaching and learning.",""],"LSCI 281S":["LSCI","Second Language Acquisition and Teaching","Explores the prevailing paradigms that seek to account for how adults learn second languages (L2s) in instructed settings.",""],"LSCI 289":["LSCI","Special Topics in Applied Language Science","Varied topics in applied language science.","Prerequisites vary."],"LSCI 290":["LSCI","Dissertation Research","Dissertation Research.",""],"LSCI 299":["LSCI","Independent Study","Independent study. Research with language science faculty.",""],"LATIN 1A":["LATIN","Fundamentals of Latin","Elements of Latin grammar, syntax, and vocabulary.",""],"LATIN 1B":["LATIN","Fundamentals of Latin","Elements of Latin grammar, syntax, and vocabulary.","LATIN 1A. LATIN 1A with a grade of C or better"],"LATIN 1C":["LATIN","Fundamentals of Latin","Introduction to reading texts, including study of the poetry of Catullus and selected readings.","LATIN 1B. LATIN 1B with a grade of C or better"],"LATIN 99":["LATIN","Special Studies in Latin","Lower-division level independent research with Latin faculty.",""],"LATIN 100":["LATIN","Topics in Classical Latin","Selected readings in Classical Latin prose and poetry. Authors may include Cicero, Caesar, Ovid, Catullus, and others. Selections from prose and poetry will be read each quarter. Grammar and syntax review included.","LATIN 1C. LATIN 1C with a grade of C or better. Placement into Latin 100 is also accepted."],"LATIN 103":["LATIN","Seminar in Latin Prose","Specialized and focused study of a particular Latin prose author or topic.","LATIN 100"],"LATIN 104":["LATIN","Seminar in Latin Poetry","Specialized and focused study of a particular topic or author in Latin poetry.","LATIN 100"],"LATIN 198":["LATIN","Directed Group Study","Special topics in Roman culture and civilization through directed reading and research.",""],"LATIN 199":["LATIN","Independent Studies in Latin","Independent research with Latin faculty.",""],"LINGUIS 150":["LINGUIS","Acquisition of Language II","Focuses on native language learning, exploring the way in which infants and very young children unconsciously uncover the rich systematic knowledge of their native language. Examines both experimental and computational studies that quantitatively investigate the \"how\" of language acquisition.","PSYCH 56L or LINGUIS 51"],"LIT JRN 20":["LIT JRN","Introduction to Literary Journalism","Reading of selected texts to explore the ways in which literary journalism and related nonfiction modes formulate experience. Students complete a range of writing projects.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"LIT JRN 21":["LIT JRN","Reporting for Literary Journalism","Instruction and hands-on training in how to interview, report, research, and collect the types of information needed to write literary journalism.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"LIT JRN 100":["LIT JRN","Advanced Reporting","Practical engagement with advanced reporting techniques of Literary Journalism, emphasizing the importance of thorough and effective research in the production of high-quality journalistic writing. Prepares students to make good decisions about where and how to publish their writing.","LIT JRN 21"],"LIT JRN 101A":["LIT JRN","Studies in the History, Theory, and Ethics of Literary Journalism","Lectures and discussion on topics that explore the historical and theoretical dimensions of literary journalism, with particular emphasis on the evolution of ethics in the field.","LIT JRN 21 and LIT JRN 20 and (COM LIT 60A or COM LIT 60C or ENGLISH 8 or ENGLISH 9 or ENGLISH 10 or ENGLISH 11 or ENGLISH 12 or ENGLISH 15 or ENGLISH 16 or ENGLISH 17)"],"LIT JRN 101BW":["LIT JRN","Literary Journalism Core Writing Workshop","Writing workshops in announced specialized genres that students will both study and practice. Examples include \"The Memoir,\" \"Review Writing,\" \"The Editorial,\" \"Writing Biography,\" \"The Profile,\" and \"Political Writing.\".","LIT JRN 101A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"LIT JRN 103":["LIT JRN","Lectures on Topics in Literary Journalism","A series of lectures on, and discussions of, announced topics in literary journalism and the literature of fact. Examples include \"Travel Literary Journalism\"; \"Literature of True Crime\"; \"Narratives in the Digital Age\"; \"Journalism on the Edge\".","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"LIT JRN 198":["LIT JRN","Special Topics","Directed group study of selected topics.",""],"LIT JRN 199":["LIT JRN","Reading and Conference","To be taken only when the materials to be studied lie outside the normal run of departmental offerings.",""],"LPS 29":["LPS","Critical Reasoning","Introduction to analysis and reasoning. The concepts of argument, premise, and conclusion, validity and invalidity, consistency and inconsistency. Identifying and assessing premises and inferences. Deductive versus inductive reasoning, and introduction to the probability calculus. Evaluating definitions. Informal fallacies.",""],"LPS 30":["LPS","Introduction to Symbolic Logic","An introduction to the symbolism and methods of the logic of statements, including evaluation of arguments by truth tables, the techniques of natural deduction, and semantic tableaux.",""],"LPS 31":["LPS","Introduction to Inductive Logic","Philosophical questions concerning the foundations of scientific inference, e.g., the traditional problem of induction, the Goodman paradox, the concept of cause, Mill's method of inductive reasoning, probability calculus, different interpretations of probability, and their interaction in inductive reasoning.",""],"LPS 40":["LPS","The Nature of Scientific Inquiry","Investigates the nature, scope, and status of scientific knowledge and the methods used to acquire it. Uses concrete historical examples from a variety of scientific fields to identify distinctive features of the scientific enterprise and explore their significance.",""],"LPS 60":["LPS","The Making of Modern Science","Surveys the history of science and mathematics since the Scientific Revolution, examining central developments both chronologically and thematically, as well as investigating their significance for contemporary philosophical debates about the role and status of current scientific theories.",""],"LPS H80":["LPS","Scientific Realism and Instrumentalism","Explores competing views of the character and status of theoretical knowledge in science, including challenges to and defenses of the view that contemporary scientific theories offer straightforward and accurate descriptions of how things stand in otherwise inaccessible domains of nature.",""],"LPS H81":["LPS","What is Space?        ","Historical, philosophical, scientific exploration of the concept of \"space.\" Questions of interest include: What kind of a thing is space? How can we know what space is like? How is space different from time.",""],"LPS 91":["LPS","The Philosophy of Sex","Discusses the origins of biological sex, dynamics of sexual selection, sex differences in humans, and the construction of gender in human societies. Seeks to understand the role social values play in the creation of science.",""],"LPS H91":["LPS","The Philosophy and Biology of Sex","Covers the origins of biological sex, dynamics of sexual selection, the evolution and cultural creation of sexual behavior in humans, and the construction of gender in human societies.",""],"LPS H95":["LPS","Jurisprudence and Constitutional Law","Applies competing theories of the nature of law and legal reasoning to evaluate decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court in controversial areas of constitutional law such as free speech, privacy, sexual conduct, affirmative action, and political campaign contributions.",""],"LPS 100W":["LPS","Writing Philosophy","Discussion of those aspects of writing of special importance in philosophy, e.g., philosophical terminology, techniques for evaluating arguments, philosophical definitions and theories. At least 4,000 words of assigned composition based on philosophical readings.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"LPS 104":["LPS","Introduction to Logic","Introduction to sentence logic, including truth tables and natural deduction; and to predicate logic, including semantics and natural deduction.",""],"LPS 105A":["LPS","Elementary Set Theory","An introduction to the basic working vocabulary of mathematical reasoning. Topics include sets, Boolean operations, ordered n-tuples, relations, functions, ordinal and cardinal numbers.",""],"LPS 105B":["LPS","Metalogic","Introduction to formal syntax (proof theory) and semantics (model theory) for first-order logic, including the deduction, completeness, compactness, and Loewenheim-Skolem theorems.","LSCI 145A or LPS 105A or PHIL 105A"],"LPS 105C":["LPS","Undecidability and Incompleteness","Introduction to the formal theory of effective processes, including recursive functions, Turing machines, Church's thesis, and proofs of Goedel's incompleteness theorem for arithmetic, and Church's undecidability theorem for first-order logic.","LSCI 145B or LPS 105B or PHIL 105B"],"LPS 106":["LPS","Topics in Logic      ","Selected topics in mathematical or philosophical logic.","PHIL 105B or LPS 105B"],"LPS 108":["LPS","Topics in Induction, Probability, and Decision Theory","Selected topics in induction, probability, and decision theory.",""],"LPS 113":["LPS","Topics in Modern Philosophy","Focuses on the works of central philosophical figures of modern Philosophy (e.g., Descartes, Leibniz, Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Kant) or on the treatment of one or more central philosophical problems by a number of these figures.",""],"LPS 115":["LPS","Topics in History of Analytic Philosophy","Review of central theories or figures in the history of analytic philosophy. Emphasis on writings of Frege, Russell, Schlick, Carnap, and Quine. Topics include the nature of meaning and truth, the synthetic\/analytic distinction, and scientific knowledge.",""],"LPS 120":["LPS","Topics in Metaphysics","Examines central philosophical questions concerning our own fundamental nature and that of the world around us (e.g., causation and necessity, determination, free will, personal identity, the mind-body problem).",""],"LPS 121":["LPS","Topics in the Theory of Knowledge ","One or more topics in the theory of knowledge, e.g., the nature of rational justification, of perceptual knowledge, of a priori knowledge.",""],"LPS H123":["LPS","What is Disease?","Explores philosophical issues associated with scientific efforts to understand and explain disease.",""],"LPS H125":["LPS","What Is Time?        ","Engages the question \"what is time?\" by drawing on physics, philosophy, fiction, film, and psychology. Organized around understanding and addressing the tension between time as represented in physics and our immediate temporal experience.",""],"LPS 135A":["LPS","The Scientific Revolution","An examination of early modern European science from 1500-1700. Includes primary readings from central figures (Copernicus, Harvey, Bacon, Descartes, et al.); themes include the impact of printing, humanism, patronage, technology, and discussion of the term \"revolution\" in this context.",""],"LPS 140":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Science","Selected topics in contemporary philosophy of science, e.g., the status of theoretical entities, the confirmation of theories, the nature of scientific explanation.",""],"LPS 141B":["LPS","Geometry and Spacetime","An examination of the foundations of the special theory of relativity, with emphasis on the geometry of Minkowski spacetime, and its relation to both Euclidean and non-Euclidean (hyperbolic) plane geometries.","MATH 2D and (MATH 3A or MATH 6G)"],"LPS 141D":["LPS","Probability and Determinism","An examination of a cluster of interrelated issues concerning probability, determinism, logic, and the foundations of quantum mechanics.","MATH 2D and (MATH 3A or MATH 6G)"],"LPS H141":["LPS","Honors Philosophy of Quantum Mechanics","An examination of the standard von Neumann-Dirac formulation of quantum mechanics. The quantum measurement problem is discussed along with several proposed solutions, including GRW, many-worlds, man-minds, and Bohm's theory.",""],"LPS 142W":["LPS","Writing\/Philosophy of Biology","Philosophy of biology, e.g., scientific method in biology, the structure of evolutionary theory, teleology, ethics, and evolution. Course work includes one 4,000-word and four 1,000-word papers.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"LPS 143":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Psychology","Selected topics in the philosophy of psychology, e.g., the nature of psychological explanation, reductionism, issues in cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience.",""],"LPS 144":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Social Science","Selected topics in the philosophy of the social sciences, e.g.: Is their goal to understand behavior or to predict and control it? Are they normative and the natural sciences not? Do they incorporate philosophical doctrines about language and mind?.",""],"LPS 145":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Language","Selected topics in the philosophy of language, e.g., the nature of meaning, mechanisms of reference, speech acts.",""],"LPS 147":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Mathematics","Selected historical and contemporary topics in the philosophy of mathematics, e.g., mathematical truth and ontology, mathematical knowledge, the nature and role of proof, the workings of mathematics in application.",""],"LPS 199":["LPS","Independent Study","Independent research with Logic and Philosophy of Science faculty.",""],"LPS 205A":["LPS","Set Theory","The basic working vocabulary of mathematical reasoning. Topics include: sets, Boolean operations, ordered n-tuples, relations, functions, ordinal and cardinal numbers.",""],"LPS 205B":["LPS","Metalogic","Formal syntax (proof theory) and semantics (model theory) for first-order logic, including the deduction, completeness, compactness, and Loewenheim-Skolem theorems.","PHIL 205A or LPS 205A"],"LPS 205C":["LPS","Undecidability and Incompleteness","Formal theory of effective processes, including recursive function, Turing machines, Church's thesis, proofs of Goedel's incompleteness theorem for arithmetics, and Church's undecidability for first-order logic.","PHIL 205B or LPS 205B"],"LPS 206":["LPS","Topics in Logic      ","Studies in selected areas of logic. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 213":["LPS","Topics in Modern Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of modern philosophy.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 215":["LPS","Topics in Analytic Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of analytic philosophy.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 220":["LPS","Topics in Metaphysics","Studies in selected areas of metaphysics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 221":["LPS","Topics in Epistemology","Studies in selected areas of epistemology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 221A":["LPS","Medical Epistemology","Analysis of epistemological issues concerning medical research and healthcare. Topics may include medical evidence, transmission of medical knowledge in the doctor-patient interaction, medical expertise, epistemology of medical disagreement, classification of illness, well-being, philosophy of pain, or medical decision making.",""],"LPS 232":["LPS","Topics in Political and Social Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of political and social philosophy. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 240":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Science","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 241":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Physics","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of physics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 242":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Biology","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of biology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 243":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Psychology","Selected topics in the philosophy of psychology, e.g., the nature of psychological explanation, reductionism, issues in cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience.",""],"LPS 244":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Social Science","Studies in selected areas of philosophy and social science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 245":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Language","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of language. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 246":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Logic","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of logic. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 247":["LPS","Topics in Philosophy of Mathematics","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of mathematics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"LPS 289":["LPS","Logic and Philosophy of Science Workshop","A two- or three-quarter-long workshop on selected topics in logic and philosophy of science.",""],"LPS 298":["LPS","Independent Study","Independent research with Logic and Philosophy of Science Faculty.",""],"LPS 299":["LPS","Directed Research","Directed study with Logic and Philosophy of Science Faculty.",""],"LPS 399":["LPS","University Teaching","Required of and limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"MGMTMBA 200":["MGMTMBA","Thinking Strategically in the Digital Age","Focuses on the strategic and organizational challenges that a rapidly changing environment poses to the firm's management and frames them according to Merage's strategic emphasis on analytical decision making, innovation, and information technology.",""],"MGMTMBA 201A":["MGMTMBA","Business Analytics: Decision-Making","Methods of statistical inference, emphasizing applications to administrative and management decision problems. Topics include classical estimation and hypothesis testing, regression, correlation, analysis of variance, decision analysis, and forecasting.","Courses in basic statistics with probability."],"MGMTMBA 201B":["MGMTMBA","Management Science","An introduction to computer-based models for decision making. Topics include optimization (linear programming, integer programming, network flow models) and computer simulation. Uses spreadsheets extensively, including Excel built-in and add-in packages.",""],"MGMTMBA 202":["MGMTMBA","Organizational Leadership for Management","Develops a better understanding of the causes and consequences of individual and group behavior, and the frameworks by which to analyze and understand complex organizations; and enhances the skills required to manage and lead an organization.",""],"MGMTMBA 203A":["MGMTMBA","Financial Reporting","Involves the development, analysis, and interpretation of financial accounting information for external reporting purposes.",""],"MGMTMBA 203B":["MGMTMBA","Driving Profitability Through Management Accounting","Teaches core skills for making vital strategic and tactical decisions (e.g., outsourcing; adding\/dropping product lines), to maximize profitability while managing risk. Also covers operational and managerial tools (e.g., budgeting, planning, cost-volume-profit analysis) to drive strategy implementation and incentivize employees.","MGMTMBA 203A or MGMT FE 203A"],"MGMTMBA 204A":["MGMTMBA","Microeconomics for Management in the Digital Age","Provides basic tools for analyzing economic decisions of consumers and firms. Topics include demand and supply analysis, production and cost theory, perfect competition, monopoly, market failures, and introductory game theory.",""],"MGMTMBA 205":["MGMTMBA","Marketing Principles","Introduction to the field of marketing. Objectives  include developing familiarity with fundamental concepts, theories, and techniques in marketing, and acquainting students with the type of decisions made by marketing managers including customer targeting, product, pricing, distribution, promotion, and research.",""],"MGMTMBA 207":["MGMTMBA","Competing with Digital: Technology, Analytics, and Platforms","Focuses on the technological and managerial issues surrounding the development and use of IT in organizations. Examines role of technology in organizations, how technology can be used to execute an organization's business strategy and to enable new, innovative business strategies.",""],"MGMTMBA 208":["MGMTMBA","Operational Excellence: Processes, Models, and Analytics","Introduction to strategic and tactical issues in production and operations management. A blend of quantitative and qualitative considerations. Topics include product planning, process design, capacity management, production planning, inventory control, distribution management, just-in-time manufacturing, quality management.",""],"MGMTMBA 209A":["MGMTMBA","Managerial Finance","Introduces students to financial theory and concepts.  The main topics covered are time value of money, valuation of stocks and bonds, capital budgeting, portfolio theory, capital structure choice.","MGMTMBA 201A and MGMTMBA 203A and MGMTMBA 204A"],"MGMTMBA 209B":["MGMTMBA","Investments","Foundations of investment management. Theory and empirical evidence related to portfolio theory, market efficiency, asset pricing models, factor models, and option pricing theory. Students are expected to combine market research results and electronic information sources to create optimal investment strategies.","MGMTMBA 209A or MGMT FE 209A"],"MGMTMBA 210":["MGMTMBA","Strategy: Foundations and Dynamics","Provides conceptual frameworks and techniques to analyze and develop firm strategies. Through case analysis and discussion, helps improve strategic thinking by developing frameworks by which to assess, evaluate, and respond to different business situations.","MGMTMBA 200 and MGMTMBA 202 and MGMTMBA 205 and MGMTMBA 209A"],"MGMTMBA 211":["MGMTMBA","MBA Proseminar","Provides students in the Merage School Full-time MBA Program with information and practical skills for success in the MBA program, and for business career planning.",""],"MGMTMBA 213":["MGMTMBA","New Venture Management","Teaches students how to launch and manage a new business by providing an overview of the start-up process, including how to identify new business opportunities and how to develop a sound operating model, value new ventures, and understand capital financing.",""],"MGMTMBA 214":["MGMTMBA","Entrepreneurship: Planning the New Venture","Project course in which student teams develop a business plan to launch a new venture. The final business plan is presented to an expert panel.","(MGMTMBA 202 or MGMT FE 202) and (MGMTMBA 205 or MGMT FE 205) and (MGMTMBA 210 or MGMT FE 210)"],"MGMTMBA 217":["MGMTMBA","Competitive Intelligence","The course focuses on how to design a competitive intelligence program which is a core foundation upon which competitive strategies and execution tactics are developed, assessed, and modified.",""],"MGMTMBA 218":["MGMTMBA","Business Dynamics","Enhances students' analytical skills by analyzing complex challenges that businesses face and to quickly implement a winning response.",""],"MGMTMBA 225":["MGMTMBA","Negotiations","Using a combination of theory and practice via negotiation simulations, students expand their repertoire of negotiating skills and develop their ability to analyze different negotiation situations and contexts.",""],"MGMTMBA 228":["MGMTMBA","International Management","Introduction to the effects of different national cultures, political and economic systems on the assumptions, expectations, organizational practices, and organizational forms needed  to conduct cross-national organizational work.","MGMTMBA 202 or MGMT FE 202"],"MGMTMBA 231A":["MGMTMBA","Financial Statement Analysis and Valuation I","Develops skills essential to using financial statements for business analysis by examining financial information quality, profitability and risk analysis, earnings management, revenue recognition, asset recognition and valuation, and how financial reporting is related to the business environment and managerial incentives.","MGMTMBA 203A or MGMT FE 203A. MGMTMBA 203A with a grade of C or better. MGMT FE 203A with a grade of C or better"],"MGMTMBA 244":["MGMTMBA","Multinational Finance","Focuses on financial issues facing multinational corporations, the most important of which is the management of foreign exchange risk. Other topics include investments and financing decisions in international capital markets.","MGMTMBA 209A or MGMT FE 209A"],"MGMTMBA 245":["MGMTMBA","FinTech and the Digital Economy for Business","Provides working knowledge of the role of IT-enabled innovation in financial markets to help students acquire an understanding of broad economic issues that are of wide applicability in many areas of FinTech. Both qualitative analysis and quantitative applications are explored.",""],"MGMTMBA 247":["MGMTMBA","Venture Capital and Private Equity","Geared to students who are seeking a career in finance and\/or in working with venture capital firms, private equity\/buyout firms, investment banks, commercial lenders, mezzanine fund investors, corporate finance, and entrepreneurial firms.",""],"MGMTMBA 248":["MGMTMBA","Corporate Valuation","Studies cases that expand concepts covered in the introductory corporate finance course and focuses on estimating the value of firms and projects in diverse settings.","(MGMTMBA 209A or MGMT FE 209A) and (MGMTMBA 209B or MGMT FE 209B)"],"MGMTMBA 251A":["MGMTMBA","Marketing Research","Covers conducting marketing research to generate consumer insights that will drive sales, market share, and profitability and\/or realize other quantitative objectives. Discusses problem formulation, data collection, statistical analyses, formulating managerial recommendations, implementation, and how research is used by companies.",""],"MGMTMBA 252D":["MGMTMBA","New Product Development","Designed to introduce the new product development process and techniques to identify markets, develop new product ideas, measure consumer preferences, position and design new products, as well as test them prior to launch. Analytical thinking and techniques are emphasized.",""],"MGMTMBA 254":["MGMTMBA","Global Marketing","Provides an understanding of the problems and perspectives of marketing across national boundaries, and develops analytical abilities for structuring and controlling marketing programs related to overseas business. Financial, legal, and cultural barriers to international marketing are emphasized.",""],"MGMTMBA 262":["MGMTMBA","Managing Nonprofits","Focuses on the similarities and differences between for-profit and nonprofit organizations, with emphasis on the management of nonprofits.  Topics include: marketing, fundraising, staffing, management\/director relationships, use of volunteers, and emerging career opportunities.",""],"MGMTMBA 263":["MGMTMBA","Economics of Information","Provides students with an understanding of fundamental economic principles governing information technology industries. Particularly, implications for optimal pricing strategies, determinants\/consequences of market structure, and the role and rationale for government intervention and the implications for business strategy.",""],"MGMTMBA 270":["MGMTMBA","Data Camp for Managers","Provides an overview of R for basic data analytics and visualization with hands-on training using Data Camp. This project is meant to foreshadow the analysis that students will be doing in their electives.",""],"MGMTMBA 273":["MGMTMBA","Machine Learning Analytics for Business","Introduces methods to mine data repositories for business intelligence to facilitate analytical decision-making. Topics include clustering for market segmentation; association rules to discover relationships between different purchase decisions; Naive-Bayes classification techniques for decision-making using decision-trees.",""],"MGMTMBA 274":["MGMTMBA","Data and Programming for Analytics","Challenges and teaches students to handle data that come in a variety of forms and sizes. Guides students through the whole data management process, from initial data acquisition to final data analysis.",""],"MGMTMBA 276":["MGMTMBA","Analytics and Technology Consulting","Focuses on elements of analytics and personalized engagement. Students work on a project using a real-life business problem and data to get hands-on understanding.",""],"MGMTMBA 279":["MGMTMBA","Digital Strategies and Markets","Examines how online social media are impacting organizations and markets. Topics include collective intelligence, online social influence, social networks, and social media monetization. The target audience consists of students interested in IT consulting, competitive strategy, marketing, and entrepreneurship.",""],"MGMTMBA 285":["MGMTMBA","Supply Chain Analytics","Introduces students to the use of advanced analytics and data-driven methods to successfully manage uncertainty in supply chains, meeting customer needs in the most timely and cost effective manner, and driving business disruptions through innovations.",""],"MGMTMBA 287":["MGMTMBA","Project Management","Examines the fundamental components of project management and its role in the modern corporation. Emphasis on how to initiate, implement, control, and terminate a project. Use of computer package for project management.",""],"MGMTMBA 288":["MGMTMBA","Predictive Analytics for Business","Deals with predicting entities, such as demand for a product or service (forecasting) and predicting membership of known groups (classification). Blends methodologies of forecasting and data mining and focuses on the application of these methods to managerial problems and decision-making.",""],"MGMTMBA 290":["MGMTMBA","Field Studies in Management","Each quarter a number of special topic seminars are offered in the 290 series.  Examples of possible topics include Communication in Organizations, Power and Authority in Organizations, International Management, Health Care Administration, Real Estate Development.",""],"MGMTMBA 292":["MGMTMBA","Business Law","Detailed study from a business viewpoint of contract theories, assignments, delegation of duties, third-party beneficiary contracts, defenses to consensual contracts, types of conditions, methods of excusing conditions, remedies, and types of damages.",""],"MGMTMBA 293":["MGMTMBA","Biotech Management   ","Taught jointly by Bio Sci and Merage School faculty, the course addresses fundamental aspects within, and associated with, the biotechnology industry. Curriculum is focused largely on management issues, including finance, product development, pharmaceuticals, project management, regulatory affairs, and ethics.",""],"MGMTMBA 294":["MGMTMBA","Edge","Edge explores the crucial roles of external forces - globalization, technology, shifting demographics - as transformative catalysts for change - opening markets, erasing boundaries, and transforming industries. This course prepares future business leaders to innovate and compete successfully.",""],"MGMTMBA 295B":["MGMTMBA","Miicromarketing with Digital Footprints","How businesses use digital footprints from household data and point-of-purchase data to customize product offerings and delivery, store locations, advertising, and promotions to households and neighborhoods with the highest market potential. Hands-on experience with Geographic Information System (GIS) mapping software.",""],"MGMTMBA 298":["MGMTMBA","Merage Consulting Projects","Provides students the opportunity to put into practice concepts, skills, and tools acquired in other parts of the M.B.A. program. Seminars augment internship experiences with analyses of relevant administrative issues.",""],"MGMTMBA 299":["MGMTMBA","Individual Study    ","Individual study under the direction of the selected faculty member.",""],"MGMT 1":["MGMT","Introduction to Business and Management","Rigorous overview of major business functions and management topics. Addresses the global and fast-changing environment in which modern business enterprises operate as well as the challenges posed by concerns about sustainable growth, ethics, and social responsibility.",""],"MGMT 4A":["MGMT","Basic Economics for Managers I","Microeconomic principles for managers. Useful applications of basic economic principles to situations in business as well as in various professions. Materials fee.",""],"MGMT 4B":["MGMT","Basic Economics for Managers II","Macroeconomic principles for managers. Useful applications of basic economic principles to situations in business as well as in various professions.","MGMT 4A or ECON 20A"],"MGMT 5":["MGMT","Management of Contemporary Organizations","Equips students with working knowledge of several major subject areas within the context of business and society studies. Topics include:  role of management in organizations, corporate social responsibility and responsiveness, ethics and values in business, government regulation, and international business.",""],"MGMT 7":["MGMT","Statistics for Business Decision Making","Basics of data analysis and the fundamental notion of statistical inference emphasizing applications to administrative and management decision problems. Classical estimation and hypotheses testing, regression, correlation, analysis of variance, nonparametric methods, and statistical probability.",""],"MGMT 30A":["MGMT","Principles of Accounting I","First in a two course introductory series. Emphasis on financial accounting concepts and practices essential to the administration of business enterprises; including recording and valuation of financial transactions, and preparation, analysis, and interpretation of financial statements.",""],"MGMT 30B":["MGMT","Principles of Accounting II","Second in a two-course introductory series. Emphasis is on the introduction of managerial accounting concepts and techniques as tools to aid management in carrying out the primary internal functions of planning, control, and decision-making.","MGMT 30A"],"MGMT 90":["MGMT","Special Topics in Management","Studies in selected areas of management. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"MGMT 101":["MGMT","Management Science","Concepts and methods of management science, which applies mathematical modeling and analysis to management problems. Topics include linear and integer programming, project scheduling, inventory management, queuing analysis, decision analysis, and simulation.","MGMT 7"],"MGMT 102":["MGMT","Managing Organizational Behavior","Basic theory and concepts which provide the manager with tools for understanding behavior of people in organizations. Areas such as individual, group, and organizational determinants of attitudes, turnover, and job performance.",""],"MGMT 105":["MGMT","Introduction to Marketing","Basic marketing concepts; discussion of the role marketing plays in modern society. Topics include industrial and consumer marketing, promotion, distribution, and pricing theory.",""],"MGMT 107":["MGMT","Introduction to Management Information Systems","Information Technology (IT) continues to drive rapid productivity growth and structural changes in the economy. Topics include what IT is, and how companies can use IT to improve business processes, enhance customer services, and gain competitive advantage over rivals.",""],"MGMT 109":["MGMT","Introduction to Managerial Finance","Basics of financial administration. Capital budgeting, cost of capital, cash budgeting, working capital management, and long-term sources of funds. Provides a basic understanding of issues and techniques involved in financial decision making.","MATH 2B and MGMT 30A"],"MGMT 110":["MGMT","Strategic Management","Addresses management of the entire business.  Role of the general manager in organizations, industry analysis, core competencies, growth through vertical integration, innovation, acquisition and diversification, globalization, strategy implementation, and the ethical and moral responsibility of a manager.","MGMT 102 and MGMT 105 and MGMT 109"],"MGMT 111":["MGMT","China and the Global Order","Introduces students to China's economic and military relations with the world, assessment of likelihood for conflict, and how to strategically manage business risk from regional conflict. Includes an original documentary series and engaging discussion.",""],"MGMT 113":["MGMT","New Ventures: A Course in Entrepreneurship","Introduction to the survival and growth of new ventures. Methods include analysis of live cases, guest speakers, discussion, and field projects with contemporary new ventures to learn about new venture management and surviving the liabilities of newness.",""],"MGMT 115":["MGMT","Lean Startup","Based on the well-known Lean Launchpad course currently used by a growing segment of the startup world. Students work in teams to ideate, develop a Business Model Canvas, and gather customer\/market feedback.",""],"MGMT 120":["MGMT","Managing Organizational Change","Focuses on the implementation of change. Identifies the features of successful changes in organizations of varying sizes and configurations, with an emphasis on the reasons why individuals resist or embrace change.","MGMT 1"],"MGMT 123":["MGMT","Creativity and Leadership in Entrepreneurial Organizations","Learn about your own thinking process; develop the ability to think both logically and creatively and to understand how emotions affect your thinking. Class sessions involve discussion and experiential exercises. Business problems and issues are used for discussion and exercises.",""],"MGMT 124":["MGMT","Human Resources Management","Theory and practice of managing human resources. Students identify and analyze HR dilemmas, apply labor law, and design systems and processes to develop the human resources needed to help organizations achieve their goals.",""],"MGMT 125":["MGMT","Negotiations","The objective is to assist students in developing an understanding of different theoretical perspectives and develop their skills in negotiating. Exploration of feelings and beliefs about negotiation, negotiation skills, and putting theory into action by practicing new negotiation skills.","MGMT 102"],"MGMT 126":["MGMT","Foundations of Teams","Social and psychological processes that detract from effective teamwork and collaboration. Tools to understand how to be a better team member are introduced. Provides the foundation for students to become effective team leaders and to manage difficult team situations.",""],"MGMT 127":["MGMT","Business Ethics","Comprehensive introduction to ethical considerations in business with a focus on awareness to the complexity of ethical decision-making and how to make choices from a standpoint of ethical consciousness.",""],"MGMT 128":["MGMT","International Management","Impact of different cultures and political\/economic systems on assumptions, expectations, and organizational practices relevant to conducting business in different national settings. Understanding of the challenges of cross-national management and resources utilized to work and conduct business outside the United States.",""],"MGMT 129":["MGMT","Leadership","Case analyses, free-form discussion, and written assignments designed to develop critical thinking skills, as well as knowledge of approaches to differing leadership challenges. Experiential exercises encourage students to develop their ability to innovate, foster collaboration, manage conflict, and value diversity.","MGMT 102"],"MGMT 131A":["MGMT","Intermediate Accounting I","First course in a series of two intermediate-level courses in financial accounting theory and practice. Concepts include the measurement, valuation, and reporting of current and long-term assets, current liabilities, and revenue recognition issues.","(MGMT 30A or ECON 25) and MGMT 30B"],"MGMT 131B":["MGMT","Intermediate Accounting II","Second course in a series of two intermediate-level courses in financial accounting theory and practice. Concepts include the measurement, valuation, and reporting of long-term liabilities and contingencies, accounting for stockholders' equity, and the Statement of Cash Flows.","MGMT 131A"],"MGMT 131C":["MGMT","Intermediate Accounting III","Third in a three-part series (A, B, and C). Focuses on developing knowledge related to investments, debt\/equity issues, accounting for income taxes, pensions, leases, and revenue recognition.","MGMT 131B"],"MGMT 132A":["MGMT","Individual Taxation","Fundamentals of federal income taxation pertaining to individuals. Topics include income, deductions, credits, property transactions, and the impact of taxes on business and investment decisions.","MGMT 30B"],"MGMT 133":["MGMT","Corporate and Partnership Taxation","Fundamentals of federal income taxation pertaining to partnerships and corporations, including subchapter S corporations. Emphasis on the tax issues associated with formation, operation, and termination of these entities.","MGMT 132A"],"MGMT 134":["MGMT","Data Analytics in Accounting","Provides students with an understanding of data types and sources and how to apply and leverage analytical techniques in making financial and managerial accounting decisions.  Business and ethical issues surrounding the collection and use of Big Data are also discussed.","MGMT 30B"],"MGMT 136":["MGMT","Accounting Information Systems & Spreadsheets","Fundamentals of accounting information systems including internal controls and transaction processing cycles. Development of efficient spreadsheets as applied to financial and managerial accounting concepts.","MGMT 30B"],"MGMT 137":["MGMT","Advanced Accounting","Covers advanced concepts in accounting theory and practice. Topics include business combinations, consolidated financial statements, foreign exchange transactions, international, and governmental\/nonprofit accounting standards.","MGMT 131B"],"MGMT 138":["MGMT","Auditing","An introduction to auditing practice with emphasis on the verification of financial statements and related information. Topics include professional ethics, assessment of audit risk, study and evaluation of internal control, gathering and evaluating audit evidence, and audit reporting.","MGMT 131B"],"MGMT 141":["MGMT","Investments","Foundations of investment management.  Theory and empirical evidence related to portfolio theory, market efficiency, asset pricing models, factor models, and option pricing theory. Students are expected to combine market research results and electronic information sources to create optimal investment strategies.","MGMT 109"],"MGMT 144":["MGMT","Multinational Finance","Focuses on financial issues facing multinational corporations, the most important of which is the management of foreign exchange risk. Introduction to investments and financing decisions in international capital markets.","MGMT 109 and (ECON 20A or MGMT 4A) and (ECON 20B or MGMT 4B)"],"MGMT 145":["MGMT","FinTech","Provides working knowledge of economic mechanisms in areas of FinTech. Identifying and analyzing important issues through a balance of qualitative analysis and quantitative applications. Topics covered include Bitcoin, Blockchain, Crowdfunding, peer-to-peer lending, robo-advisor, and their economic and social impacts.",""],"MGMT 146A":["MGMT","Introduction to the Real Estate Process","Introductory survey course providing a working knowledge of the real estate market, both residential and commercial. Topics include real estate economics, appraisal, feasibility, investment, tax considerations, financing, and development. Lectures and cases, with supplemental presentations by real estate professionals.",""],"MGMT 147":["MGMT","Applied Financial Valuation","Case study course designed to confront students with real-world financial valuation problems. Situations are chosen to enhance students' understanding of the application of finance theory. The principal focus is on estimating the value of firms and projects in diverse settings.","MGMT 109 and MGMT 141"],"MGMT 149":["MGMT","Derivatives","Introduction to financial derivatives. Covers forward contracts, futures, swaps, and options. Applications of these instruments, including pricing and risk management, are emphasized.","MGMT 109 and MGMT 141"],"MGMT 150":["MGMT","Consumer Behavior","Application of the behavioral sciences to understanding buyer behavior.  Topics include perception, memory, affect, learning, persuasion, motivation, behavioral decision theory, social and culture influences, and managerial implications.",""],"MGMT 151":["MGMT","Marketing Research","Research to aid managerial decisions for products and services; problem formulation, research design, data collection, sampling, statistical analyses, managerial recommendations, and implementation in several real-world settings.",""],"MGMT 153":["MGMT","Sales Management","Designed for students interested in learning about sales force management and personal selling by firms engaged in business-to-business and consumer goods\/services marketing. Covers advantages of personal selling, how to perform sales calls, challenges of sales managers, roles of buying centers.",""],"MGMT 154":["MGMT","Global Marketing","Students are exposed to the challenges and opportunities facing marketers in the international marketplace. Special attention is given to the management of cultural differences in product development, distribution systems, pricing, and promotion.",""],"MGMT 155":["MGMT","Brand Management","Introduction to issues in planning, implementing, and evaluating brand strategies, relevant theories, models, and tools for the making of brand decisions; application of these principles.","MGMT 105"],"MGMT 156":["MGMT","Pricing Strategy     ","Provides a framework for designing and analyzing pricing strategies. Emphasizes role of pricing in the marketing-mix decisions and broader marketing strategy of a firm. Incorporates study of various economic, psychological, competitive, and organizational foundations that enter into effective pricing decisions.","MGMT 105"],"MGMT 158":["MGMT","Digital Media Marketing Strategy ","Entails developing digital marketing strategy across numerous digital marketing platforms; understanding digital native consumers and newer consumer.","MGMT 105"],"MGMT 159":["MGMT","Analysis of Marketing Data","Provides opportunity to learn and apply analytical skills to marketing datasets to unveil hidden patterns and truths, to measure and quantify the performance differences between different initiatives, and to inform decision-making in an increasingly digital world.","MGMT 105"],"MGMT 165":["MGMT","U","Providers, suppliers, payers, consumers, and the unique market dynamics among these players. Structure, organization, and financing of health care. The health care industry's relationship to the overall economy will be explored.",""],"MGMT 166":["MGMT","Business of Medicine","In order to improve the quality and efficiency of health care delivery one must understand the design and management of health care operations. Opportunities for innovation and changes needed to design a simple, accessible, fair, and effective health care system.",""],"MGMT 171":["MGMT","Social Media","Covers theoretical aspects and business applications of social media tools including blogs, wikis, social networking platforms, immersive environments, and other social computing technologies. Also covers business value of social-media-enabled processes.",""],"MGMT 172":["MGMT","Data and Programming for Analytics","Challenges and teaches students how to handle data that come in a variety of forms and sizes. Guides students through the whole data management process, from initial data acquisition to final data analysis.","Recommended: Previous experience with programming languages (preferably Python)."],"MGMT 173":["MGMT","Business Intelligence for Analytical Decisions","BI from both managerial and technical perspectives. Learn to apply a variety of data mining techniques to learn business intelligence embedded in data, and apply that intelligence to run your business more efficiently. These techniques are useful in different areas.","MGMT 107"],"MGMT 174":["MGMT","Business Data Management","Query, manipulate, and understand data and learn about leading edge applications for databases.  Database fundamentals including entity relationship design, creating database tables, normalization, and data querying.  Contemporary applications of database using case studies.  Applications include data warehousing, data mining.","MGMT 107"],"MGMT 176":["MGMT","Digital Strategies","Covers business strategies for firms that make technology products. Insights are applicable not only to industries that make information and technology goods but also to industries that leverage digitization and network effects for their products.",""],"MGMT 178":["MGMT","Management of Information Technology","Strategic use and impact of information technology (IT) in organizations. Covers what IT is, and how it works, business value of IT, and IT strategies that organizations can employ to create value.","MGMT 107"],"MGMT 182":["MGMT","Supply Chain Management","Flows of materials and information among all of the firms that contribute to a product or service. Forecasting, demand management, logistical networks, inventory management, supplier contracting, sourcing, information technology, flexibility, globalization, and performance management.","MGMT 101"],"MGMT 189":["MGMT","Operations Management","Managing the productive resources, from which raw materials as inputs are being transformed into useful outputs of final products and services. Explanation of issues pertaining to both manufacturing and services-oriented systems.","MGMT 101"],"MGMT 190":["MGMT","Special Topics in Management","Studies in selected areas of management. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"MGMT 191W":["MGMT","Business Communication","Provides students with a solid foundation in business communication. Emphasis is placed on improving students' written and oral communication skills to help them succeed in (1) upper-division Business Administration courses, (2) graduate school, and (3) work and career activities.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MGMT 192":["MGMT","Business Law","A study of the legal environment of business.  Topics include contracts, agency, partnerships, corporations, and other basic principles of law as they relate to business transactions.",""],"MGMT 194":["MGMT","Financial Statement Analysis","Study of financial statements and their related footnotes; tools and procedures common to financial statement analysis; relationships among business transactions, environmental forces (political, economic, social), and reported financial statement information; how financial statement information can help solve certain business problems.","MGMT 30A and MGMT 30B"],"MGMT 196":["MGMT","Decision Analysis","Use of decision analysis digital technologies for multiple objective decisions under certainty; decision-making under risk using decision trees; fitting probability distributions to judgments or data; and Monte Carlo simulation, applied to business, government, not-for-profit, and personal decisions.","MGMT 101"],"MGMT 198A":["MGMT","Administrative Internship","Selected undergraduates serve as managers within administrative units on campus with a three-quarter course which complements the intern experience. Topics include management ethics, study of non- and for-profit institutions, career management, and the changing nature of the workforce.",""],"MGMT 198B":["MGMT","Administrative Internship","Selected undergraduates serve as managers within administrative units on campus with a three-quarter course which complements the intern experience. Topics include management ethics, study of non- and for-profit institutions, career management, and the changing nature of the workforce.",""],"MGMT 198C":["MGMT","Administrative Internship","Selected undergraduates serve as managers within administrative units on campus with a three-quarter course which complements the intern experience. Topics include management ethics, study of non- and for-profit institutions, career management, and the changing nature of the workforce.",""],"MGMT 199":["MGMT","Independent Study","Individual study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"MGMTPHD 291":["MGMTPHD","Ph","Each quarter a number of special topic seminars are offered in the 291 series for Ph.D. students. Examples include topics such as methods seminar, experimental design, qualitative research, structural equation modeling.",""],"MGMTPHD 292":["MGMTPHD","Pre-Colloquium Seminar ","Seeks to facilitate discussion of upcoming Colloquium research papers increasing the likelihood that Ph.D. students are active participants in all of the Colloquia. Active participation enhances exposure of Ph.D. students to visiting scholars.",""],"MGMTPHD 297A":["MGMTPHD","Doctoral Proseminar","Analysis of the central theories and theoretical controversies in the field of management. Examination of the formal education for managerial careers and exploration of issues relating to professional careers in research and scholarship in the field of management.",""],"MGMTPHD 297B":["MGMTPHD","University Teaching","Designed to prepare students for teaching career; incorporates seminars addressing topics of classroom dynamics, syllabus preparation, teaching techniques; establishes mentor relationship with faculty member in student's teaching area, provides classroom experience and includes option of videotape analysis of teaching style.",""],"MGMTPHD 297F":["MGMTPHD","Doctoral Research Methods","An introduction to the fundamentals of social science research: theory development, research design, methods, data management, and writing for scholarly publications; for doctoral students intending scholarly research careers. Involves hands-on practice in formulating hypotheses, designing research, and conducting journal reviews.",""],"MGMTPHD 297H":["MGMTPHD","Experimental Design","Advanced course provides experience in planning and implementing an experiment or quasi-experiment, including choice of topic, study design, data analysis, and manuscript preparation.  Data analysis topics include ANOVA, ANCOVA, repeated measures, logistic regression, chi-square, and tests of mediation.",""],"MGMTPHD 297I":["MGMTPHD","Applied Multivariate Statistics","Provides an overview of the most common techniques for multivariate analysis: principal component analysis, factor analysis, cluster analysis, MANOVA, regression with continuous variables, and regression with discrete variables.",""],"MGMTPHD 297K":["MGMTPHD","Advanced Qualitative Methods: Analyzing Qualitative Data","Introduction to the theory and practice of analyzing qualitative data. Students must have already learned about data collection and research design for qualitative research and must have qualitative data they can analyze.",""],"MGMTPHD 297L":["MGMTPHD","Writing for Scholarly Publication","Introduces methods for planning and carrying out scholarly writing.",""],"MGMTPHD 297M":["MGMTPHD","SAS Boot Camp        ","Teaches basics of SAS programming for empirical research. No prior knowledge of SAS or other computer programming language is required. Provides knowledge and tools to replicate an empirical study and learn how to perform very advanced data procedures.",""],"MGMTPHD 297Q":["MGMTPHD","Game-Theoretic Models for Management Research","Introduces some classic game-theoretic models for management research. It is about modeling strategic interactions between business competitors and\/or partners in an analytical framework.  Various applications will be discussed, e.g., pricing strategies, business alliances, e-commerce, negotiations, and contracts, etc.",""],"MGMTPHD 297R":["MGMTPHD","Theories of Power and Empowerment","Studies different ways of thinking about power and its uses. Explores theories of power that inform various notions of empowerment, including resistance, participatory democracy, and workplace empowerment.",""],"MGMTPHD 297S":["MGMTPHD","Business Economics Applications","Teaches mathematical and conceptual basics of microeconomics and application. Covers basics of consumer\/firm behavior, static and dynamic imperfect competition. Building of simple mathematical models to gain economic insights into business practices and decisions.",""],"MGMTPHD 297T":["MGMTPHD","Decision Theory","Decision theories and preference models: How models are elicited or theories are experimentally tested, relevance to different management research areas, alternative theories, applications in management practice, and interpretations for the general public.",""],"MGMTPHD 297U":["MGMTPHD","Foundational Theories of Organizations","Covers major economic and sociological perspectives guiding the study of organizations (i.e., transaction cost economics, agency theory, institutional theories, organizational ecology, network and diffusion theories, behavioral theories, resource dependence), and examines how different theoretical perspectives are tested.",""],"MGMTPHD 297V":["MGMTPHD","Information, Psychology, and Social Processes","In the marketplace for ideas, which succeed and which fail? How do ideas and information spread between individuals, and how do populations of ideas evolve? This course reviews recent research on these issues and applications to business.",""],"MGMTPHD 297W":["MGMTPHD","Establishing Your Academic Career","Overview of the best practices for succeeding in an academic career. Presenting oneself in conversation, in written documents, in research talks, and in teaching.",""],"MGMTPHD 299":["MGMTPHD","Individual Directed Study","Individual study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"MGMTPHD 399":["MGMTPHD","University Teaching","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"MPAC 200A":["MPAC","Intermediate Accounting Intensive I","Designed to provide students with technical U.S. accounting theory and principles background necessary for graduate work in accounting. Current international accounting convergence issues and standards will be discussed on emerging topics.",""],"MPAC 200B":["MPAC","Foundations of Taxation Intensive","Provides students with the basic concepts of federal income taxation applicable to all taxpayers. Specifically, principles of taxation for individuals, corporations, and partnerships are discussed.",""],"MPAC 200C":["MPAC","Intermediate Accounting Intensive II and Special Topics","Designed to provide students with the technical U.S. accounting theory and principles background necessary for graduate work in accounting. Current international accounting convergence issues and standards will be discussed on emerging topics.",""],"MPAC 200D":["MPAC","Auditing Intensive","Designed to provide students with an understanding of the fundamental principles, processes, and ethical considerations involved in the performance of a financial statement audit under U.S. auditing standards.",""],"MPAC 230":["MPAC","Emerging Topics in Accounting","Provides students with information and practical skills for success in the program and for professional accounting and business career planning, and with discussions of current issues confronting the accounting profession.",""],"MPAC 231A":["MPAC","Financial Statement Analysis and Forecasting","Develops skills to analyze corporate financial reports. Topics include profitability, risk analysis, cash flow analysis, revenue and asset recognition, and forecasting. The skills are useful for students to evaluate financial reporting quality, detect earnings management, and predict firms' financial performance.","Intermediate accounting."],"MPAC 231B":["MPAC","Advanced Financial Statement Analysis","Develops skills to analyze corporate financial reports with a focus on liabilities, stockholders' equity, and valuation. Topics include forecasting financial statements, cash flows- and earnings-based equity, and valuation models, accounting analysis of mergers and acquisitions, lease pensions, and derivatives.",""],"MPAC 232":["MPAC","Taxes and Business Strategy","Develops a student's ability to identify, understand, and evaluate tax-planning opportunities. The focus is on tax planning concepts and the effects of taxes on business decisions rather than on detailed tax rules, compliance, or legal research.",""],"MPAC 233":["MPAC","Non-for-Profit Accounting","Focuses on the accounting and reporting for governmental and non-for-profit entities. Topics include preparation of fund basis financial statements and related reporting and auditing issues. Use of non-financial performance measures for non-for-profit entities is also discussed.",""],"MPAC 234":["MPAC","Accounting Policy and Research","Considers issues in contemporary accounting standard setting and regulation by examining academic accounting research of the various issues. Enables students to develop their knowledge and better appreciate current debates in accounting.",""],"MPAC 235":["MPAC","Advanced Managerial Accounting","Design of cost information and systems used to plan and control organizational activities; procedures used to account for unit, process, and program costs; cybernetic evaluation of costing procedures; cost estimation, analysis, and accounting via computers.",""],"MPAC 236":["MPAC","Forensic Accounting ","Elective course focuses on the principles, and application of forensic accounting.  Topics include the identification, detection, and prevention of fraud, valuations, damage calculations, and litigation support. The role of forensic accountants in the legal system will also be discussed.",""],"MPAC 237":["MPAC","International Accounting","An online course. A comprehensive study of differences between US GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).","Intermediate accounting."],"MPAC 238":["MPAC","Advanced Auditing and Assurance Services","Designed to provide advanced coverage of topics and emerging issues in auditing and assurance services. Provides a deeper understanding of the fundamental concepts of auditing, assurance services, and developing hot-topics within the auditing profession.","Intermediate accounting and basic auditing."],"MPAC 239":["MPAC","Ethics in Accounting and Business","Designed to introduce students to the intellectual principles of ethical decision making by emphasizing the theories of ethics and their application in the business, and specifically, accounting professions. MPAC capstone course with a final comprehensive exam for the program.",""],"MPAC 241":["MPAC","Accounting Internship","Provides students with the opportunity to apply accounting knowledge through actual work experiences. The internship experience will provide students with knowledge of career opportunities, an understanding of how accounting plays in today's business environment, and prepare students for success.",""],"MPAC 290":["MPAC","Special Topic Seminars","Studies in selected area of Accounting. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"MPAC 291":["MPAC","Professional Research and Communication","Combines research of the professional accounting literature on a range of technical topics with a written communication and oral presentations of the findings.",""],"MPAC 299":["MPAC","Individual Study","Individual study under the direction of a selected faculty member.",""],"MSE 60":["MSE","Laboratory in Synthesis and Characterization of Materials","Synthesis and characterization of ceramic, polymer, and semiconductor materials. Connect the process, structure, properties, and performance to materials science knowledge in a hands-on laboratory setting. Materials fee.","ENGR 54 and CHEM 1C"],"MSE 69":["MSE","Electronic and Optical Properties in Materials","Covers the electronic, optical, and dielectric properties of crystalline and amorphous materials to provide a foundation of the underlying physical principles governing the properties of existing and emerging electronic and photonic materials.","PHYS 7D and PHYS 7E and (MATH 3A or ICS 6N) and MATH 3D and ENGR 54"],"MSE 141":["MSE","Nano-Scale Materials and Applications","Overview of the chemistry, physics, and applications of nanometer-scale materials. Explore the effects of composition, bonding, and confinement on physical properties of nanomaterials, their chemical syntheses, and their device physics in electronic, optoelectronic, and energy technologies.","(ENGR 1A or CHEM 1A or CHEM H2A) and ENGR 54 and MSE 69"],"MSE 142":["MSE","Synthesis and Properties of Biological, Biomimetic, and Bio-Inspired Materials","Synthesis of biological materials, including self-assembly and biomineralization, and translational processing to engineered materials via additive manufacturing, freeze casting, and other methods. Subsequent functional properties of these materials are reviewed.","ENGR 54 and MSE 165C"],"MSE 151":["MSE","Polymeric Materials","An introduction to physical aspects of polymers, including polymer molecular size and configuration, solution and bulk phase structural properties, mechanical properties including viscoelasticity and rheology, polymer synthesis methods, characterization techniques, processing methods, and examples from existing and emerging polymeric materials.","ENGR 54 and (MSE 165A or CBE 40C or MAE 91)"],"MSE 155":["MSE","Mechanical Behavior and Design Principles","Principles governing structure and mechanical behavior of materials, relationship relating microstructure and mechanical response with application to elasticity, plasticity, yielding, necking, creep, and fracture of materials. Introduction to experimental techniques to characterize the properties of materials. Design parameters.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 155L":["MSE","Mechanical Behavior Laboratory","Introduction to experimental techniques to characterize mechanical properties of materials. Emphasis on correlations between property and microstructure. Experiments include: plastic stability in tension, effect of grain size on flow stress, microstructural engineering.  Materials fee.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 158":["MSE","Ceramic Materials for Sustainable Energy","A technical elective for students interested in materials. Topics covered include structure and properties of ceramic materials, and design for sustainable energy applications.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 163":["MSE","Computer Techniques in Experimental Research","Principles and practical guidelines of automated materials testing. Computer fundamentals, programming languages, data acquisition and control hardware, interfacint techniques, programming strategies, data analysis, data storage, safeguard procedures.",""],"MSE 164":["MSE","X-ray Diffraction, Electron Microscopy, and Microanalysis","Material characterization using X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Topics include X-ray diffraction and analysis; SEM imaging and microanalysis.","ENGR 54 and PHYS 7D"],"MSE 164L":["MSE","X-ray Diffraction, Electron Microscopy, and Microanalysis Lab","Material characterization using X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Topics include X-ray diffraction and analysis; SEM imaging and microanalysis. Materials fee.","ENGR 54 and PHYS 7D"],"MSE 165A":["MSE","Thermodynamics of Materials","Treatment of the laws of thermodynamics and their application in understanding properties and equilibrium states of engineering materials. Develops relationships pertaining to multiphase equilibrium and presents graphical constructions for interpretation of phase diagrams. Statistical thermodynamics in relation to materials phenomena.","CHEM 1C and PHYS 7C"],"MSE 165B":["MSE","Diffusion and Heat Transport in Materials","Examines how kinetics affect materials development, behavior, and processing. Highlights the ways in which kinetics and diffusion are key to designing materials processing and heat treating strategies, with examples in various applied topics.","ENGR 54 and (MSE 165A or CBE 40C or MAE 91). ENGR 54 with a grade of C- or better. MSE 165A with a grade of C- or better"],"MSE 165C":["MSE","Materials Kinetics and Phase Transformations","Treatment of the kinetics of solid-state reactions and reactions at interfaces. Thermodynamics and kinetics of phase transformations, including solidification processes, diffusional and diffusionless phase transformations.","ENGR 54 and (MSE 165A or CBE 40C or MAE 91) and (MSE 165B or BME 150 or MAE 120 or (CBE 120B and CBE 120C)). MSE 165A with a grade of C- or better"],"MSE 165CL":["MSE","Laboratory in Materials Kinetics and Phase Transformations","Covers topics of practical application of the kinetics of solid state reactions, reactions at interfaces, and the thermodynamics and kinetics of phase transformations to common materials systems.","ENGR 54 and (MSE 165B or (CBE 120B and CBE 120C) or MAE 120). MSE 165B with a grade of C- or better"],"MSE 171":["MSE","Green Engineering: Theory and Practice","Methods and impacts of selecting alternative technologies, processes, materials, chemicals, to reduce pollution, waste, and use of toxic substances, thereby creating \"green,\" environmentally responsible, sustainable solutions. Topics include environmental regulations, recycling, life-cycle assessment, economic analysis, design, green chemistry, and toxicology.",""],"MSE 173":["MSE","Fundamentals of Materials Processing: How are Materials Processed to Make Things?","An in-depth knowledge of manufacturing processes with focus on the fundamentals of materials processing (heat flow, mass flow, fluid flow, etc.). Processing fundamentals that apply to the three main classes of engineering materials: metals, ceramics, and polymers.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 174":["MSE","Composite Materials Design","Introduction to fiber-reinforced composites for mechanical applications. Properties of reinforcing fibers. Manufacture of fibers and composites. Micromechanics of fiber composites. Strength criteria and failure modes. Macromechanics in design of laminated composite structures.","ENGR 54 and ENGR 150"],"MSE 175":["MSE","Design Failure Investigation","Survey of mechanisms by which devices fail, including overload, fatigue, corrosion, and wear. Use of fractography and other evidence to interpret failure modes and specify design\/manufacturing changes. Students redesign failed parts or structures based on actual parts and\/or case histories.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 176":["MSE","Surface and Adhesion Science","Structure, thermodynamics of, kinetics, and reactions on surfaces. Surface electronic and mechanical properties and characterization of all classes of materials including metals, semiconductors, ceramics, polymers, and soft materials. Adhesion between different materials is also addressed.","(CBE 110 or MSE 165C) and (MSE 141 or MSE 69)"],"MSE 189A":["MSE","Senior Design Project I","Group supervised senior design projects that deal with materials selection in engineering design and that involve case studies in ethics, safety, design, failure modes, new products, and patents. Activities conclude with a presentation of the projects. Materials fee.","ENGR 54 and MSE 155 and MSE 60 and MSE 165C"],"MSE 189B":["MSE","Senior Design Project II","Group supervised senior design projects that deal with materials selection in engineering design and that involve case studies in ethics, safety, design, failure modes, new products, and patents. Activities conclude with a presentation of the projects. Materials fee.","MSE 189A"],"MSE 189C":["MSE","Senior Design Project III","Group supervised senior design projects that deal with materials selection in engineering design and that involve case studies in ethics, safety, design, failure modes, new products, and patents. Activities conclude with a presentation of the projects. Materials fee.","MSE 189B"],"MSE 190":["MSE","Materials Selection and Design","Meaning and phases of design; design considerations; properties of engineering materials; materials property charts; materials selection; process selection; multi-constraint and multi-objective design. Selection of shape in mechanical components. Designing with hybrid materials: challenges and opportunities. Environmental considerations; case studies.","ENGR 54 and ENGR 150"],"MSE 191":["MSE","Materials Outreach","Demonstrates major concepts in Materials Science and Engineering. Concepts of materials engineering covered include deformation in crystalline solids, effects of heat treatment on mechanical properties, thermal barrier materials, composites design, mechanical behavior of polymers, superconductivity in ceramics.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 195":["MSE"," Special Topics in Materials Science and Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Materials Science and Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter."," Prerequisites vary."],"MSE 198":["MSE","Group Study","Group study of selected topics in engineering.",""],"MSE 199":["MSE","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"MSE 199P":["MSE","Individual Study","Supervised independent reading, research, or design for undergraduate Engineering majors. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"MSE 200":["MSE","Crystalline Solids: Structure, Imperfections, and Properties","Principles and concepts underlying the study of advanced materials including alloys, composites, ceramics, semiconductors, polymers, ferroelectrics, and magnetics. Crystal structure and defects, surface and interface properties, thermodynamics and kinetics of phase transformations, and material processing, related to fundamental material properties.",""],"MSE 201A":["MSE","Critical Analysis and Technical Communication I","Develop an understanding of the process to conduct research. Topics include performing analytical analysis of the scientific literature, formation of a hypothesis, defining investigations to validate hypothesis, communicating analysis in written form, writing a research proposal.",""],"MSE 201B":["MSE","Critical Analysis and Technical Communication II","Develop oral presentation skills and skills to understand significance of published research.  Topics include performing critical and analytical analysis of the scientific literature, connecting core course content with experimental\/theoretical methods in the scientific literature, and communicating analysis in oral form.","MSE 201A"],"MSE 205":["MSE","Materials Physics","Covers the electronic, optical, and dielectric properties of crystalline materials to provide a foundation of the underlying physical principles of governing the properties of existing and emerging electronic and photonic materials.","MSE 200"],"MSE 241":["MSE","Nano-Scale Materials and Applications","Overview of the chemistry, physics, and applications of nanometer-scale materials. Explore the effects of composition, bonding, and confinement on physical properties of nanomaterials, their chemical syntheses, and their device physics in electronic, optoelectronic, and energy technologies.","MSE 200 and MSE 205"],"MSE 249":["MSE","Special Topics in Materials Science and Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Materials Science and Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"MSE 254":["MSE","Polymer Science and Engineering","An introduction to physical aspects of polymers, including configuration and conformation of polymer chains and characterization techniques; crystallinity visoelasticity, rheology, and processing.",""],"MSE 255A":["MSE","Design with Ceramic Materials","Dependence of ceramic properties on bonding, crystal structure, defects, and microstructure. Ceramic manufacturing technology. Survey of physical properties. Strength, deformation, and fracture of ceramics. Mechanical design with brittle, environment-sensitive materials exhibiting time-dependent strengths.","ENGR 54"],"MSE 256A":["MSE","Mechanical Behavior of Engineering Materials","Principles governing structure and mechanical behavior of materials, relationship relating microstructure and mechanical response with application to elasticity, plasticity, creep, and fatigue, study of rate-controlling mechanisms and failure modes, fracture of materials.",""],"MSE 256B":["MSE","Fracture of Engineering Materials","Fracture mechanics and its application to engineering materials. Elastic properties of cracks, the stress intensity factor, the crack tip plastic zone, the J integral approach, fracture toughness testing, the crack tip opening displacement, fracture at high temperatures, fatigue crack growth.",""],"MSE 259":["MSE","Transmission Electron Microscopy","The theory and operation of the transmission electron microscope (TEM), including the basic construction, electron optics, electron diffraction and reciprocal space, formation of image and electron diffraction information, microanalysis, and specimen preparation.","MSE 200"],"MSE 262":["MSE","Grain Boundaries and Interfaces in Nanocrystalline Materials","Structure and character of grain boundaries and interfaces in solids including nanocrystalline materials. Role of grain boundaries in chemical segregation, fracture, deformation, creep, conductivity, diffusion, and grain growth. Experimental techniques and computational methods used to characterize and model grain boundaries.","MSE 200"],"MSE 264":["MSE","Scanning Electron Microscopy","The theory and operation of the scanning electron microscope (SEM) and X-ray microanalysis. Topics covered include the basic design and electron optics, electron beam - specimen interactions, image formation and interpretation, X-ray spectrometry, and other related topics and techniques.","MSE 200"],"MSE 265":["MSE","Phase Transformations","Advanced thermodynamics and kinetics of phase transformations and phase transitions.","MSE 200"],"MSE 267":["MSE","Seminar in Systems Microbiology Research","A research and journal club seminar that covers topics on bacteria and phage using approaches and principles from biology, engineering, and physics.",""],"MSE 271":["MSE","Green Engineering: Theory and Practice","Methods and impacts of selecting alternative technologies, processes, materials, chemicals, to reduce pollution, waste, and use of toxic substances, thereby creating \"green,\" environmentally responsible, sustainable solutions. Topics include environmental regulations, recycling, life-cycle assessment, economic analysis, design, green chemistry, and toxicology.",""],"MSE 273":["MSE","Electroceramics & Solid State Electrochemical Systems","Theory, underlying principles, experimental techniques, and applications of electroceramics and solid-state electrochemical systems. Links solid state physics, atomic structure, thermodynamics, defect chemistry, and transport processes to electrical properties of ceramics - spanning from insulators to fast-ion conductors and HT superconductors.","MSE 200"],"MSE 276":["MSE","Surface and Adhesion Science","Structure, thermodynamics of, kinetics, and reactions on surfaces. Surface electronic and mechanical properties and characterization of all classes of materials including metals, semiconductors, ceramics, polymers, and soft materials. Adhesion between different materials is also addressed.",""],"MSE 295":["MSE","Seminar in Engineering","Seminars by individual faculty in major fields of interest.",""],"MSE 296":["MSE","Master of Science Thesis Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the thesis required for the M.S. degree in Engineering.",""],"MSE 297":["MSE","Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the dissertation required for the Ph.D. degree in Engineering.",""],"MSE 298":["MSE","Seminars in Materials Science and Engineering","Presentation of advanced topics and reports of current research efforts in Materials Science and Engineering.",""],"MSE 299":["MSE","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"MATH 1A":["MATH","Pre-Calculus I","Basic equations and inequalities, linear and quadratic functions, and systems of simultaneous equations.",""],"MATH 1B":["MATH","Pre-Calculus II","Preparation for calculus and other mathematics courses. Exponentials, logarithms, trigonometry, polynomials, and rational functions. Satisfies no requirements other than contribution to the 180 units required for graduation.","MATH 1A. Placement into MATH 1B via the Calculus Placement exam, or a score of 450 or higher on the Mathematics section of the SAT Reasoning Test."],"MATH 2A":["MATH","Single-Variable Calculus I","Introduction to derivatives, calculation of derivatives of algebraic and trigonometric functions; applications including curve sketching, related rates, and optimization. Exponential and logarithm functions.","MATH 1B or AP Calculus AB or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics. MATH 1B with a grade of C- or better. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 3. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 650. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 29. Placement via the Calculus Placement exam (fee required) is also accepted."],"MATH 2B":["MATH","Single-Variable Calculus II","Definite integrals; the fundamental theorem of calculus. Applications of integration including finding areas and volumes. Techniques of integration. Infinite sequences and series.","MATH 2A or MATH 5A or MATH 7A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"MATH 2D":["MATH","Multivariable Calculus I","Differential and integral calculus of real-valued functions of several real variables, including applications. Polar coordinates.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"MATH 2E":["MATH","Multivariable Calculus II","The differential and integral calculus of vector-valued functions. Implicit and inverse function theorems. Line and surface integrals, divergence and curl, theorems of Greens, Gauss, and Stokes.","MATH 2D or MATH H2D"],"MATH H2D":["MATH","Honors Multivariable Calculus I","Differential and integral calculus of real-valued functions of several real variables, including applications. Polar coordinates. Covers the same material as MATH 2D-E, but with a greater emphasis on the theoretical structure of the subject matter.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or (AP Calculus BC and (MATH H3A or MATH 3A)). MATH 2B with a grade of A or better. MATH 5B with a grade of A or better. MATH 7B with a grade of A or better. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 5. MATH H3A with a grade of B- or better. MATH 3A with a grade of A or better"],"MATH H2E":["MATH","Honors Multivariable Calculus II","Differential and integral calculus of real-valued functions of several real variables, including applications. Polar coordinates. Covers the same material as MATH 2D-E, but with a greater emphasis on the theoretical structure of the subject matter.","MATH H2D. MATH H2D with a grade of B- or better"],"MATH 3A":["MATH","Introduction to Linear Algebra","Systems of linear equations, matrix operations, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, vector spaces, subspaces, and dimension.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"MATH 3D":["MATH","Elementary Differential Equations","Linear differential equations, variation of parameters, constant coefficient cookbook, systems of equations, Laplace transforms, series solutions.","(MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and (MATH 2D or MATH H2D)"],"MATH H3A":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Linear Algebra","Systems of linear equations, matrix operations, determinants, eigenvalues, eigenvectors, vector spaces, subspaces, and dimension.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC. MATH 2B with a grade of A or better. MATH 5B with a grade of A or better. MATH 7B with a grade of A or better. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 5"],"MATH 5A":["MATH","Calculus for Life Sciences I","Differential calculus with applications to life sciences. Exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions. Limits, differentiation techniques, optimization and difference equations.","MATH 1B or AP Calculus AB or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics. MATH 1B with a grade of C- or better. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 3. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 650. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 29. Placement via the Calculus Placement exam (fee required) is also accepted."],"MATH 5B":["MATH","Calculus for Life Sciences II","Integral calculus and multivariable calculus with applications to life sciences. Integration techniques, applications of the integral, phase plane methods and basic modeling, basic multivariable methods.","MATH 5A or MATH 2A or MATH 7A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"MATH 7A":["MATH","Single-Variable Calculus I","Introduction to derivatives, calculation of derivatives of algebraic and trigonometric functions; applications including curve sketching, related rates, and optimization. Exponential and logarithm functions.","MATH 1B or AP Calculus AB or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics. MATH 1B with a grade of C- or better. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 3. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 650. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 29. Placement via the Calculus Placement exam (fee required) is also accepted."],"MATH 7B":["MATH","Single-Variable Calculus II","Definite integrals; the fundamental theorem of calculus. Applications of integration including finding areas and volumes. Techniques of integration. Infinite sequences and series.","MATH 2A or MATH 5A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC or MATH 7A. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"MATH 8":["MATH","Explorations in Functions and Modeling","Explorations of applications and connections in topics in algebra, geometry, calculus, and statistics for future secondary math educators. Emphasis on nonstandard modeling problems.","r corequisite: MATH 2A or MATH 5A or MATH 7A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"MATH 9":["MATH","Introduction to Programming for Numerical Analysis","Introduction to computers and programming using Matlab and Python. Representation of numbers and precision, input\/output, functions, custom data types, testing\/debugging, reading exceptions, plotting data, numerical differentiation, basics of algorithms. Analysis of random processes using computer simulations.","MATH 2A or MATH 5A or MATH 7A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"MATH 10":["MATH","Introduction to Programming for Data Science","Introduction to Python for data science. Selecting appropriate data types; functions and methods; plotting; the libraries NumPy, pandas, scikit-learn. Foundations of machine learning.","r corequisite: (MATH 2D or MATH H2D) and (MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 9"],"MATH 13":["MATH","Introduction to Abstract Mathematics","Introduction to formal definition and rigorous proof writing in mathematics. Topics include basic logic, set theory, equivalence relations, and various proof techniques such as direct, induction, contradiction, contrapositive, and exhaustion.","MATH 2A or MATH 5A or MATH 7A or ICS 6D"],"MATH 99":["MATH","New Math Major Seminar for First-Year and Transfer Students","A series of presentations and activities to help first-year and transfer students transition to the UCI mathematics majors. Presentations are given by faculty, current students, and school staff to ensure that students make the most of the math major.",""],"MATH 105A":["MATH","Numerical Analysis I","Introduction to the theory and practice of numerical computation with an emphasis on solving equations. Solving transcendental equations; linear systems, Gaussian elimination, QR factorization, iterative methods, eigenvalue computation, power method.","(MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 9"],"MATH 105B":["MATH","Numerical Analysis II","Introduction to the theory and practice of numerical computation with an emphasis on topics from calculus and approximation theory. Lagrange interpolation; Gaussian quadrature; Fourier series and transforms; Methods from data science including least squares and L1 regression.","MATH 105A"],"MATH 105LA":["MATH","Numerical Analysis Laboratory","Provides practical experience to complement the theory developed in Mathematics 105A.",""],"MATH 105LB":["MATH","Numerical Analysis Laboratory","Provides practical experience to complement the theory developed in Mathematics 105B.",""],"MATH 107":["MATH","Numerical Differential Equations","Theory and applications of numerical methods to initial and boundary-value problems for ordinary and partial differential equations.","MATH 3D and MATH 105B"],"MATH 107L":["MATH","Numerical Differential Equations Laboratory","Provides practical experience to complement the theory developed in Mathematics 107.",""],"MATH 110A":["MATH","Optimization I","Introduction to optimization, linear search method, trust region method, Newton method, linear programming, linear, and non-linear least square methods.","r corequisite: (MATH 2D or MATH H2D) and MATH 10 and MATH 121B"],"MATH 110B":["MATH","Optimization II","The simplex method, interior point method, penalty barrier method, primal dual method, augmented Lagrangian method, and stochastic gradient method.","MATH 110A. MATH 110A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 112A":["MATH","Introduction to Partial Differential Equations and Applications I","Introduction to ordinary and partial differential equations and their applications in engineering and science. Basic methods for classical PDEs (potential, heat, and wave equations). Classification of PDEs, separation of variables and series expansions, special functions, eigenvalue problems.","(MATH 2E or MATH H2E) and MATH 3D"],"MATH 112B":["MATH","Introduction to Partial Differential Equations and Applications II","Introduction to partial differential equations and their applications in engineering and science. Basic methods for classical PDEs (potential, heat, and wave equations). Green functions and integral representations, method of characteristics.","MATH 112A"],"MATH 112C":["MATH","Introduction to Partial Differential Equations and Applications III","Nonhomogeneous problems and Green's functions, Sturm-Liouville theory, general Fourier expansions, applications of partial differential equations in different areas of science.","MATH 112B"],"MATH 113A":["MATH","Mathematical Modeling in Biology I","Discrete mathematical and statistical models; difference equations, population dynamics, Markov chains, and statistical models in biology.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"MATH 113B":["MATH","Mathematical Modeling in Biology II","Linear algebra; differential equations models; dynamical systems; stability; hysteresis; phase plane analysis; applications to cell biology, viral dynamics, and infectious diseases.","MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"MATH 115":["MATH","Mathematical Modeling","Mathematical modeling and analysis of phenomena that arise in engineering physical sciences, biology, economics, or social sciences.","MATH 112A"],"MATH 117":["MATH","Dynamical Systems","Introduction to the modern theory of dynamical systems including contraction mapping principle, fractals and chaos, conservative systems, Kepler problem, billiard models, expanding maps, Smale's horseshoe, topological entropy.","MATH 3D and MATH 140A"],"MATH 118":["MATH","The Theory of Differential Equations","Existence and uniqueness of solutions, continuous dependence of solutions on initial conditions and parameters, Lyapunov and asymptotic stability, Floquet theory, nonlinear systems, and bifurcations.","MATH 3D and MATH 140A"],"MATH 120A":["MATH","Introduction to Abstract Algebra: Groups","Axioms for group theory; permutation groups, matrix groups. Isomorphisms, homomorphisms, quotient groups. Advanced topics as time permits. Special emphasis on doing proofs.","(MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 13. MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 120B":["MATH","Introduction to Abstract Algebra: Rings and Fields","Basic properties of rings; ideals, quotient rings; polynomial and matrix rings. Elements of field theory.","MATH 120A. MATH 120A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 120C":["MATH","Introduction to Abstract Algebra: Galois Theory","Galois Theory: proof of the impossibility of certain ruler-and-compass constructions (squaring the circle, trisecting angles); nonexistence of analogues to the \"quadratic formula\" for polynomial equations of degree 5 or higher.","MATH 120B"],"MATH H120A":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Graduate Algebra I","Introduction to abstract linear algebra, including bases, linear transformation, eigenvectors, canonical forms, inner products, and symmetric operators. Introduction to groups, rings, and fields, including examples of groups, group actions, Sylow theorems, modules over principal ideal domains, polynomials, and Galois groups.","(MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 13 and (MATH 120A or MATH 121A). MATH 13 with a grade of A or better. MATH 120A with a grade of A or better. MATH 121A with a grade of A or better"],"MATH H120B":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Graduate Algebra II","Introduction to abstract linear algebra, including bases, linear transformation, eigenvectors, canonical forms, inner products, and symmetric operators. Introduction to groups, rings, and fields, including examples of groups, group actions, Sylow theorems, modules over principal ideal domains, polynomials, and Galois groups.","MATH H120A"],"MATH H120C":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Graduate Algebra III","Introduction to abstract linear algebra, including bases, linear transformation, eigenvectors, canonical forms, inner products, and symmetric operators. Introduction to groups, rings, and fields, including examples of groups, group actions, Sylow theorems, modules over principal ideal domains, polynomials, and Galois groups.","MATH H120B"],"MATH 121A":["MATH","Linear Algebra I","Introduction to modern abstract linear algebra. Special emphasis on students doing proofs. Vector spaces, linear independence, bases, dimension. Linear transformations and their matrix representations. Theory of determinants.","(MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 13. MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 121B":["MATH","Linear Algebra II","Introduction to modern abstract linear algebra. Special emphasis on students doing proofs. Canonical forms; inner products; similarity of matrices.","MATH 121A. MATH 121A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 130A":["MATH","Probability I","Combinatorial probability, conditional probabilities, independence, discrete and continuous random variables, expectation and variance, common probability distributions.","MATH 3A or MATH H3A"],"MATH 130B":["MATH","Probability II","Joint distributions, sums of independent random variables, conditional distributions and conditional expectation, covariances, moment generating functions, limit theorems.","MATH 130A or STAT 120A"],"MATH 130C":["MATH","Stochastic Processes","Markov chains, Brownian motion, Gaussian processes, applications to option pricing and Markov chain Monte Carlo methods.","MATH 130B"],"MATH 134A":["MATH","Fixed Income","Overview of interest theory, time value of money, annuities\/cash flows with payments that are not contingent, loans, sinking funds, bonds, general cash flow and portfolios, immunization, duration and convexity, swaps.","MATH 130A or STAT 120A"],"MATH 134B":["MATH","Mathematics of Financial Derivatives","General derivatives; call\/put options; hedging and investment strategies: spreads and collars; risk management; forwards and futures; bonds.","MATH 130A. MATH 130A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 134C":["MATH","Mathematical Models for Finance","General properties of options: option contracts (call and put options, European, American and exotic options); binomial option pricing model, Black-Scholes option pricing model; risk-neutral pricing formula using Monte-Carlo simulation; option greeks and risk management; interest rate derivatives, Markowitz portfolio theory.","MATH 134B or MATH 133A"],"MATH 140A":["MATH","Elementary Analysis I","Introduction to real analysis, including convergence of sequence, infinite series, differentiation and integration, and sequences of functions. Students are expected to do proofs.","(MATH 2D or MATH H2D) and (MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 13. MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 140B":["MATH","Elementary Analysis II","Introduction to real analysis including convergence of sequences, infinite series, differentiation and integration, and sequences of functions. Students are expected to do proofs.","MATH 140A. MATH 140A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 140C":["MATH","Analysis in Several Variables ","Rigorous treatment of multivariable differential calculus. Jacobians, Inverse and Implicit Function theorems.","MATH 140B"],"MATH H140A":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Graduate Analysis I","Construction of the real number system, topology of the real line, concepts of continuity, differential and integral calculus, sequences and series of functions, equicontinuity, metric spaces, multivariable differential and integral calculus, implicit functions, curves and surfaces.","(MATH 2E or MATH H2E) and (MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 13 and MATH 121A and MATH 140A. MATH 2E with a grade of A or better. MATH H2E with a grade of A or better. MATH 13 with a grade of A or better. MATH 121A with a grade of A or better. MATH 140A with a grade of A or better"],"MATH H140B":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Graduate Analysis II","Construction of the real number system, topology of the real line, concepts of continuity, differential and integral calculus, sequences and series of functions, equicontinuity, metric spaces, multivariable differential and integral calculus, implicit functions, curves and surfaces.","MATH H140A. MATH H140A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH H140C":["MATH","Honors Introduction to Graduate Analysis III","Construction of the real number system; topology of the real line; concepts of continuity, differential, and integral calculus; sequences and series of functions, equicontinuity, metric spaces, multivariable differential, and integral calculus; implicit functions, curves and surfaces.","MATH H140B. MATH H140B with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 141":["MATH","Introduction to Topology","The elements of naive set theory and the basic properties of metric spaces. Introduction to topological properties.","MATH 140A"],"MATH 147":["MATH","Complex Analysis","Rigorous treatment of basic complex analysis: analytic functions, Cauchy integral theory and its consequences, power series, residue calculus, harmonic functions, conformal mapping. Students are expected to do proofs.","r corequisite: MATH 140B"],"MATH 150":["MATH","Introduction to Mathematical Logic","First order logic through the Completeness Theorem for predicate logic.","MATH 13 or (ICS 6B and ICS 6D). MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better. ICS 6B with a grade of C- or better. ICS 6D with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 161":["MATH","Modern Geometry","Euclidean Geometry; Hilbert's Axioms; Absolute Geometry; Hyperbolic Geometry; the Poincare Models; and Geometric Transformations.","MATH 13 or (ICS 6B and ICS 6D). MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better. ICS 6B with a grade of C- or better. ICS 6D with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 162A":["MATH","Introduction to Differential Geometry I","Applications of advanced calculus and linear algebra to the geometry of curves and surfaces in space.","(MATH 2E or MATH H2E) and MATH 3D"],"MATH 162B":["MATH","Introduction to Differential Geometry II","Applications of advanced calculus and linear algebra to the geometry of curves and surfaces in space.","MATH 162A. MATH 162A with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 173A":["MATH","Introduction to Cryptology I","Introduction to some of the mathematics used in the making and breaking of codes, with applications to classical ciphers and public key systems. Includes topics from number theory, probability, and abstract algebra.","(MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC) and (MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and (MATH 13 or (ICS 6B and ICS 6D)). AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"MATH 173B":["MATH","Introduction to Cryptology II","Introduction to some of the mathematics used in the making and breaking of codes, with applications to classical ciphers and public key systems. The mathematics which is covered includes topics from number theory, probability, and abstract algebra.","MATH 173A"],"MATH 175":["MATH","Combinatorics        ","Introduction to combinatorics including basic counting principles, permutations, combinations, binomial coefficients, inclusion-exclusion, derangements, ordinary and exponential generating functions, recurrence relations, Catalan numbers, Stirling numbers, and partition numbers.","(MATH 2B or MATH 5B or MATH 7B or AP Calculus BC) and MATH 13. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4. MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 176":["MATH","Mathematics of Finance","After reviewing tools from probability, statistics, and elementary differential and partial differential equations, concepts such as hedging, arbitrage, Puts, Calls, the design of portfolios, the derivation and solution of the Blac-Scholes, and other equations are discussed.","MATH 3A or MATH H3A"],"MATH 180A":["MATH","Number Theory I","Introduction to number theory and applications. Divisibility, prime numbers, factorization. Arithmetic functions. Congruences. Quadratic residue. Diophantine equations. Introduction to cryptography.","(MATH 3A or MATH H3A) and MATH 13. MATH 13 with a grade of C- or better"],"MATH 180B":["MATH","Number Theory II","Introduction to number theory and applications. Analytic number theory, character sums, finite fields, discrete logarithm, computational complexity. Introduction to coding theory. Other topics as time permits.","MATH 180A"],"MATH 184":["MATH","History of Mathematics","Topics vary from year to year. Some possible topics: mathematics in ancient times; the development of modern analysis; the evolution of geometric ideas. Students will be assigned individual topics for term papers.","MATH 120A and MATH 140A"],"MATH 184L":["MATH","History of Mathematics Lesson Lab","Aspiring math teachers research, design, present, and peer review middle school or high school math lessons that draw from history of mathematics topics.","PS 5"],"MATH 192":["MATH","Studies in the Learning and Teaching of Secondary Mathematics","Focus is on historic and current mathematical concepts related to student learning and effective math pedagogy, with fieldwork in grades 6-14.",""],"MATH 194":["MATH","Problem Solving Seminar","Develops ability in analytical thinking and problem solving, using problems of the type found in the Mathematics Olympiad and the Putnam Mathematical Competition. Students taking the course in fall will prepare for and take the Putnam examination in December.",""],"MATH 195W":["MATH","Mathematical Writing","Techniques of mathematical writing and communication. Covers effectively writing mathematical papers, creating effective presentations, and communicating mathematics in a variety of media. Focuses on utilizing LaTeX for typesetting mathematics.","MATH 120A or MATH 121A or MATH 140A. MATH 120A with a grade of C- or better. MATH 121A with a grade of C- or better. MATH 140A with a grade of C- or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MATH 199A":["MATH","Special Studies in Mathematics","Supervised reading. For outstanding undergraduate Mathematics majors in supervised but independent reading or research of mathematical topics.",""],"MATH 199B":["MATH","Special Studies in Mathematics","Supervised reading. For outstanding undergraduate Mathematics majors in supervised but independent reading or research of mathematical topics.",""],"MATH 199C":["MATH","Special Studies in Mathematics","Supervised reading. For outstanding undergraduate Mathematics majors in supervised but independent reading or research of mathematical topics.",""],"MATH 205A":["MATH","Introduction to Graduate Analysis","Construction of the real number system, topology of the real line, concepts of continuity, differential and integral calculus, sequences and series of functions, equicontinuity, metric spaces, multivariable differential and integral calculus, implicit functions, curves and surfaces.","Recommended: MATH 2E and MATH 3A and MATH 13, or equivalent."],"MATH 205B":["MATH","Introduction to Graduate Analysis","Construction of the real number system, topology of the real line, concepts of continuity, differential and integral calculus, sequences and series of functions, equicontinuity, metric spaces, multivariable differential and integral calculus, implicit functions, curves and surfaces.","MATH 205A"],"MATH 205C":["MATH","Introduction to Graduate Analysis","Construction of the real number system, topology of the real line, concepts of continuity, differential and integral calculus, sequences and series of functions, equicontinuity, metric spaces, multivariable differential and integral calculus, implicit functions, curves and surfaces.","MATH 205B"],"MATH 210A":["MATH","Real Analysis","Measure theory, Lebesgue integral, signed measures, Radon-Nikodym theorem, functions of bounded variation and absolutely continuous functions, classical Banach spaces, Lp spaces, integration on locally compact spaces and the Riesz-Markov theorem, measure and outer measure, product measure spaces.","Recommended: MATH 140C or equivalent."],"MATH 210B":["MATH","Real Analysis","Measure theory, Lebesgue integral, signed measures, Radon-Nikodym theorem, functions of bounded variation and absolutely continuous functions, classical Banach spaces, Lp spaces, integration on locally compact spaces and the Riesz-Markov theorem, measure and outer measure, product measure spaces.","MATH 210A"],"MATH 210C":["MATH","Real Analysis","Measure theory, Lebesgue integral, signed measures, Radon-Nikodym theorem, functions of bounded variation and absolutely continuous functions, classical Banach spaces, Lp spaces, integration on locally compact spaces and the Riesz-Markov theorem, measure and outer measure, product measure spaces.","MATH 210B"],"MATH 211A":["MATH","Topics in Analysis   ","Studies in selected areas of Real Analysis, a continuation of MATH 210A-MATH 210B-MATH 210C. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Recommended: MATH 210C"],"MATH 218A":["MATH","Introduction to Manifolds and Geometry","General topology and fundamental groups, covering space; Stokes theorem on manifolds, selected topics on abstract manifold theory.","Recommended: MATH 140C and MATH 121B, or equivalent."],"MATH 218B":["MATH","Introduction to Manifolds and Geometry","General topology and fundamental groups, covering space; Stokes theorem on manifolds, selected topics on abstract manifold theory.","MATH 218A"],"MATH 218C":["MATH","Introduction to Manifolds and Geometry","General topology and fundamental groups, covering space; Stokes theorem on manifolds, selected topics on abstract manifold theory.","MATH 218B"],"MATH 220A":["MATH","Analytic Function Theory","Standard theorems about analytic functions. Harmonic functions. Normal families. Conformal mapping.","Recommended: MATH 140C or equivalent."],"MATH 220B":["MATH","Analytic Function Theory","Standard theorems about analytic functions. Harmonic functions. Normal families. Conformal mapping.","MATH 220A"],"MATH 220C":["MATH","Analytic Function Theory","Standard theorems about analytic functions. Harmonic functions. Normal families. Conformal mapping.","MATH 220B"],"MATH 222A":["MATH","Several Complex Variables and Complex Geometry","Several Complex variables, d-bar problems, mappings, Kaehler geometry, de Rham and Dolbeault Theorems, Chern Classes, Hodge Theorems, Calabi conjecture, Kahler-Einstein geometry, Monge-Ampere.","MATH 220C"],"MATH 225A":["MATH","Introduction to Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing","Introduction to fundamentals of numerical analysis from an advanced viewpoint. Error analysis, approximation of functions, nonlinear equations.","Recommended: MATH 3D and MATH 105B and MATH 140A and MATH 121A and MATH 112A, or equivalent."],"MATH 225B":["MATH","Introduction to Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing","Introduction to fundamentals of numerical analysis from an advanced viewpoint. Numerical linear algebra, numerical solutions of differential equations; stability.","MATH 225A"],"MATH 225C":["MATH","Introduction to Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing","Introduction to fundamentals of numerical analysis from an advanced viewpoint. Numerical linear algebra, numerical solutions of differential equations; stability.","Recommended: MATH 3D and MATH 105B and MATH 140A and MATH 121A and MATH 112A, or equivalent."],"MATH 226A":["MATH","Computational Differential Equations","Finite difference and finite element methods. Quick treatment of functional and nonlinear analysis background: weak solution, Lp spaces, Sobolev spaces. Approximation theory. Fourier and Petrov-Galerkin methods; mesh generation. Elliptic, parabolic, hyperbolic cases in 226A-B-C, respectively.","Recommended: MATH 3D and MATH 112A and (MATH 140B or MATH 105B), or equivalent."],"MATH 226B":["MATH","Computational Differential Equations","Finite difference and finite element methods. Quick treatment of functional and nonlinear analysis background: weak solution, Lp spaces, Sobolev spaces. Approximation theory. Fourier and Petrov-Galerkin methods; mesh generation. Elliptic, parabolic, hyperbolic cases in 226A-B-C, respectively.","Recommended: MATH 3D and MATH 112A and (MATH 140B or MATH 105B), or equivalent."],"MATH 226C":["MATH","Computational Differential Equations","Finite difference and finite element methods. Quick treatment of functional and nonlinear analysis background: weak solution, Lp spaces, Sobolev spaces. Approximation theory. Fourier and Petrov-Galerkin methods; mesh generation. Elliptic, parabolic, hyperbolic cases in 226A-B-C, respectively.","Recommended: MATH 3D and MATH 112A and (MATH 140B or MATH 105B), or equivalent."],"MATH 227A":["MATH","Mathematical and Computational Biology","Analytical and numerical methods for dynamical systems, temporal-spatial dynamics, steady state, stability, stochasticity. Application to life sciences: genetics, tissue growth and patterning, cancers, ion channels gating, signaling networks, morphogen gradients. Analytical methods.","Recommended: MATH 2A and MATH 2B and MATH 3A, or equivalent."],"MATH 227B":["MATH","Mathematical and Computational Biology","Analytical and numerical methods for dynamical systems, temporal-spatial dynamics, steady state, stability, stochasticity. Application to life sciences: genetics, tissue growth and patterning, cancers, ion channels gating, signaling networks, morphogen gradients. Numerical simulations.","MATH 227A"],"MATH 227C":["MATH","Mathematical and Computational Biology ","Analytical and numerical methods for dynamical systems, temporal-spatial dynamics, steady state, stability, stochasticity. Application to life sciences: genetics, tissue growth and patterning, cancers, ion channels gating, signaling networks, morphogen gradients. Probabilistic methods.","MATH 227A"],"MATH 230A":["MATH","Algebra","Elements of the theories of groups, rings, fields, modules. Galois theory. Modules over principal ideal domains. Artinian, Noetherian, and semisimple rings and modules.","Recommended: MATH 120A and MATH 121A and MATH 120B, or equivalent."],"MATH 230B":["MATH","Algebra","Elements of the theories of groups, rings, fields, modules. Galois theory. Modules over principal ideal domains. Artinian, Noetherian, and semisimple rings and modules.","MATH 230A"],"MATH 230C":["MATH","Algebra","Elements of the theories of groups, rings, fields, modules. Galois theory. Modules over principal ideal domains. Artinian, Noetherian, and semisimple rings and modules.","MATH 230B"],"MATH 232A":["MATH","Algebraic Number Theory","Algebraic integers, prime ideals, class groups, Dirichlet unit theorem, localization, completion, Cebotarev density theorem, L-functions, Gauss sums, diophantine equations, zeta functions over finite fields. Introduction to class field theory.","MATH 230C"],"MATH 232B":["MATH","Algebraic Number Theory","Algebraic integers, prime ideals, class groups, Dirichlet unit theorem, localization, completion, Cebotarev density theorem, L-functions, Gauss sums, diophantine equations, zeta functions over finite fields. Introduction to class field theory.","MATH 232A"],"MATH 232C":["MATH","Algebraic Number Theory","Algebraic integers, prime ideals, class groups, Dirichlet unit theorem, localization, completion, Cebotarev density theorem, L-functions, Gauss sums, diophantine equations, zeta functions over finite fields. Introduction to class field theory.","MATH 232B"],"MATH 233A":["MATH","Algebraic Geometry","Basic commutative algebra and classical algebraic geometry. Algebraic varieties, morphisms, rational maps, blow ups. Theory of schemes, sheaves, divisors, cohomology. Algebraic curves and surfaces, Riemann-Roch theorem, Jacobians, classification of curves and surfaces.","MATH 230C"],"MATH 233B":["MATH","Algebraic Geometry","Basic commutative algebra and classical algebraic geometry. Algebraic varieties, morphisms, rational maps, blow ups. Theory of schemes, sheaves, divisors, cohomology. Algebraic curves and surfaces, Riemann-Roch theorem, Jacobians, classification of curves and surfaces.","MATH 233A"],"MATH 233C":["MATH","Algebraic Geometry","Basic commutative algebra and classical algebraic geometry. Algebraic varieties, morphisms, rational maps, blow ups. Theory of schemes, sheaves, divisors, cohomology. Algebraic curves and surfaces, Riemann-Roch theorem, Jacobians,  classification of curves and surfaces.","MATH 233B"],"MATH 234B":["MATH","Topics in Algebra","Group theory, homological algebra, and other selected topics.","MATH 230C"],"MATH 234C":["MATH","Topics in Algebra","Group theory, homological algebra, and other selected topics.","MATH 230C"],"MATH 235A":["MATH","Mathematics of Cryptography","Mathematics of public key cryptography: encryption and signature schemes; RSA; factoring; primality testing; discrete log based cryptosystems, elliptic and hyperelliptic curve cryptography and additional topics as determined by the instructor.","MATH 230C"],"MATH 239A":["MATH","Analytic Methods in Arithmetic Geometry","Riemann zeta function, Dirichlet L-functions, prime number theorem, zeta functions over finite fields, sieve methods, zeta functions of algebraic curves, algebraic coding theory, L-Functions over number fields, L-functions of modular forms, Eisenstein series.","MATH 220C and MATH 230C"],"MATH 239B":["MATH","Analytic Methods in Arithmetic Geometry","Riemann zeta function, Dirichlet L-functions, prime number theorem, zeta functions over finite fields, sieve methods, zeta functions of algebraic curves, algebraic coding theory, L-Functions over number fields, L-functions of modular forms, Eisenstein series.","MATH 239A"],"MATH 239C":["MATH","Analytic Methods in Arithmetic Geometry","Riemann zeta function, Dirichlet L-functions, prime number theorem, zeta functions over finite fields, sieve methods, zeta functions of algebraic curves, algebraic coding theory, L-Functions over number fields, L-functions of modular forms, Eisenstein series.","MATH 239B"],"MATH 240A":["MATH","Differential Geometry","Riemannian manifolds, connections, curvature, and torsion. Submanifolds, mean curvature, Gauss curvature equation. Geodesics, minimal submanifolds, first and second fundamental forms, variational formulas. Comparison theorems and their geometric applications. Hodge theory applications to geometry and topology.","MATH 218A"],"MATH 240B":["MATH","Differential Geometry","Riemannian manifolds, connections, curvature and torsion. Submanifolds, mean curvature, Gauss curvature equation. Geodesics, minimal submanifolds, first and second fundamental forms, variational formulas. Comparison theorems and their geometric applications. Hodge theory applications to geometry and topology.","MATH 240A"],"MATH 240C":["MATH","Differential Geometry","Riemannian manifolds, connections, curvature and torsion. Submanifolds, mean curvature, Gauss curvature equation. Geodesics, minimal submanifolds, first and second fundamental forms, variational formulas. Comparison theorems and their geometric applications. Hodge theory applications to geometry and topology.","MATH 240B"],"MATH 245A":["MATH","Topics in Geometric Analysis","Studies in selected areas of differential geometry, a continuation of MATH 240A-MATH 240B-MATH 240C. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","MATH 218A"],"MATH 245B":["MATH","Topics in Geometric Analysis","Studies in selected areas of differential geometry, a continuation of MATH 240A-MATH 240B-MATH 240C. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","MATH 245A"],"MATH 245C":["MATH","Topics in Geometric Analysis","Studies in selected areas of differential geometry, a continuation of MATH 240A-MATH 240B-MATH 240C. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","MATH 245B"],"MATH 249":["MATH","Topics in Differential Geometry","Studies in selected areas of differential geometry. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"MATH 250A":["MATH","Algebraic Topology","Provides fundamental materials in algebraic topology: fundamental group and covering space, homology and cohomology theory, and homotopy group.","Recommended: MATH 120B and MATH 141, or equivalent."],"MATH 250B":["MATH","Algebraic Topology","Provides fundamental materials in algebraic topology: fundamental group and covering space, homology and cohomology theory, and homotopy group.","MATH 250A"],"MATH 250C":["MATH","Algebraic Topology","Provides fundamental materials in algebraic topology: fundamental group and covering space, homology and cohomology theory, and homotopy group.","MATH 250B"],"MATH 260A":["MATH","Functional Analysis","Normed linear spaces, Hilbert spaces, Banach spaces, Stone-Weierstrass Theorem, locally convex spaces, bounded operators on Banach and Hilbert spaces, the Gelfand-Neumark Theorem for commutative C*-algebras, the spectral theorem for bounded self-adjoint operators, unbounded operators on Hilbert spaces.","MATH 210C and MATH 220C"],"MATH 260B":["MATH","Functional Analysis","Normed linear spaces, Hilbert spaces, Banach spaces, Stone-Weierstrass Theorem, locally convex spaces, bounded operators on Banach and Hilbert spaces, the Gelfand-Neumark Theorem for commutative C*-algebras, the spectral theorem for bounded self-adjoint operators, unbounded operators on Hilbert spaces.","MATH 260A"],"MATH 260C":["MATH","Functional Analysis","Normed linear spaces, Hilbert spaces, Banach spaces, Stone-Weierstrass Theorem, locally convex spaces, bounded operators on Banach and Hilbert spaces, the Gelfand-Neumark Theorem for commutative C*-algebras, the spectral theorem for bounded self-adjoint operators, unbounded operators on Hilbert spaces.","MATH 260B"],"MATH 270A":["MATH","Probability","Probability spaces, distribution, and characteristic functions. Strong limit theorems. Limit distributions for sums of independent random variables. Conditional expectation and martingale theory. Stochastic processes.","MATH 210C. Recommended: MATH 130C or equivalent."],"MATH 270B":["MATH","Probability","Probability spaces, distribution and characteristic functions. Strong limit theorems. Limit distributions for sums of independent random variables. Conditional expectation and martingale theory. Stochastic processes.","MATH 270A"],"MATH 270C":["MATH","Probability","Probability spaces, distribution and characteristic functions. Strong limit theorems. Limit distributions for sums of independent random variables. Conditional expectation and martingale theory. Stochastic processes.","MATH 270B"],"MATH 271A":["MATH","Stochastic Processes","Processes with independent increments, Wiener and Gaussian processes, function space integrals, stationary processes, Markov processes.","MATH 210C"],"MATH 271B":["MATH","Stochastic Processes","Processes with independent increments, Wiener and Gaussian processes, function space integrals, stationary processes, Markov processes.","MATH 271A"],"MATH 271C":["MATH","Stochastic Processes","Processes with independent increments, Wiener and Gaussian processes, function space integrals, stationary processes, Markov processes.","MATH 271B"],"MATH 274":["MATH","Topics in Probability","Selected topics, such as theory of stochastic processes, martingale theory, stochastic integrals, stochastic differential equations.","Recommended: MATH 270C."],"MATH 280A":["MATH","Mathematical Logic","Basic set theory; models, compactness, and completeness; basic model theory; Incompleteness and Godel's Theorems; basic recursion theory; constructible sets.","Recommended: MATH 150."],"MATH 280B":["MATH","Mathematical Logic","Basic set theory; models, compactness, and completeness; basic model theory; Incompleteness and Godel's Theorems; basic recursion theory; constructible sets.","MATH 280A"],"MATH 280C":["MATH","Mathematical Logic","Basic set theory; models, compactness, and completeness; basic model theory; Incompleteness and Godel's Theorems; basic recursion theory; constructible sets.","MATH 280B"],"MATH 281A":["MATH","Set Theory","Ordinals, cardinals, cardinal arithmetic, combinatorial set theory, models of set theory, Godel's constructible universe, forcing, large cardinals, iterate forcing, inner model theory, fine structure.",""],"MATH 281B":["MATH","Set Theory","Ordinals, cardinals, cardinal arithmetic, combinatorial set theory, models of set theory, Godel's constructible universe, forcing, large cardinals, iterate forcing, inner model theory, fine structure.","MATH 281A"],"MATH 281C":["MATH","Set Theory","Ordinals, cardinals, cardinal arithmetic, combinatorial set theory, models of set theory, Godel's constructible universe, forcing, large cardinals, iterate forcing, inner model theory, fine structure.","MATH 281B"],"MATH 282A":["MATH","Model Theory","Languages, structures, compactness, and completeness. Model-theoretic constructions. Omitting types theorems. Morley's theorem. Ranks, forking. Model completeness. O-minimality. Applications to algebra.",""],"MATH 282B":["MATH","Model Theory","Languages, structures, compactness and completeness. Model-theoretic constructions. Omitting types theorems. Morley's theorem. Ranks, forking. Model completeness. O-minimality. Applications to algebra.","MATH 282A"],"MATH 282C":["MATH","Model Theory","Languages, structures, compactness and completeness. Model-theoretic constructions. Omitting types theorems. Morley's theorem. Ranks, forking. Model completeness. O-minimality. Applications to algebra.","MATH 282B"],"MATH 285":["MATH","Topics in Mathematical Logic","Studies in selected areas of mathematical logic, a continuation of MATH 280A-MATH 280B-MATH 280C. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"MATH 290A":["MATH","Methods in Applied Mathematics","Introduction to ODEs and dynamical systems: existence and uniqueness. Equilibria and periodic solutions. Bifurcation theory. Perturbation methods: approximate solution of differential equations. Multiple scales and WKB. Matched asymptotic. Calculus of variations: direct methods, Euler-Lagrange equation. Second variation and Legendre condition.",""],"MATH 290B":["MATH","Methods in Applied Mathematics","Introduction to ODEs and dynamical systems: existence and uniqueness. Equilibria and periodic solutions. Bifurcation theory. Perturbation methods: approximate solution of differential equations. Multiple scales and WKB. Matched asymptotic. Calculus of variations: direct methods, Euler-Lagrange equation. Second variation and Legendre condition.","MATH 290A"],"MATH 290C":["MATH","Methods in Applied Mathematics","Introduction to ODEs and dynamical systems: existence and uniqueness. Equilibria and periodic solutions. Bifurcation theory. Perturbation methods: approximate solution of differential equations. Multiple scales and WKB. Matched asymptotic. Calculus of variations: direct methods, Euler-Lagrange equation. Second variation and Legendre condition.","MATH 290B"],"MATH 295A":["MATH","Partial Differential Equations","Theory and techniques for linear and nonlinear partial differential equations. Local and global theory of partial differential equations: analytic, geometric, and functional analytic methods.","MATH 210C. Recommended: MATH 112B and MATH 112C or equivalent."],"MATH 295B":["MATH","Partial Differential Equations","Theory and techniques for linear and nonlinear partial differential equations. Local and global theory of partial differential equations: analytic, geometric, and functional analytic methods.","MATH 295A"],"MATH 295C":["MATH","Partial Differential Equations","Theory and techniques for linear and nonlinear partial differential equations. Local and global theory of partial differential equations: analytic, geometric, and functional analytic methods.","MATH 295B"],"MATH 296":["MATH","Topics in Partial Differential Equations","Studies in selected areas of partial differential equations, a continuation of MATH 295A-MATH 295B-MATH 295C. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","MATH 295C"],"MATH 297":["MATH","Mathematics Colloquium","Weekly colloquia on topics of current interest in mathematics.",""],"MATH 298A":["MATH","Seminar               ","Seminars organized for detailed discussion of research problems of current interest in the Department. The format, content, frequency, and course value are variable.",""],"MATH 298B":["MATH","Seminar               ","Seminars organized for detailed discussion of research problems of current interest in the Department. The format, content, frequency, and course value are variable.","MATH 298A"],"MATH 298C":["MATH","Seminar              ","Seminars organized for detailed discussion of research problems of current interest in the Department. The format, content, frequency, and course value are variable.","MATH 298B"],"MATH 299A":["MATH","Supervised Reading and Research","Supervised reading and research with Mathematics faculty.",""],"MATH 299B":["MATH","Supervised Reading and Research","Supervised reading and research with Mathematics faculty.","MATH 299A"],"MATH 299C":["MATH","Supervised Reading and Research","Supervised reading and research with Mathematics faculty.","MATH 299B"],"MATH 399":["MATH","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"ENGRMAE 10":["ENGRMAE","Introduction to Engineering Computations","Introduction to the solution of engineering problems through the use of the computer. Elementary programming, numerical analysis, and data visualization with a high-level programming language such as MATLAB.","MATH 2A or MATH 5A"],"ENGRMAE 30":["ENGRMAE","Statics","Addition and resolution of forces, distributed forces, equivalent system of forces centroids, first moments, moments and products on inertia, equilibrium of rigid bodies, trusses, beams, cables.  Course may be offered online.","MATH 2D and PHYSICS 7C"],"ENGRMAE 52":["ENGRMAE","Computer-Aided Design","Develops skills for interpretation and presentation of mechanical design drawings and the use of CAD in engineering design. An integrated approach to drafting based on sketching, manual drawing, and three-dimensional CAD techniques is presented. Materials fee.",""],"ENGRMAE 57":["ENGRMAE","Manufacturing Processes in Engineering","With laboratory. Machines and processes of mechanical manufacturing. Safety and professional procedures emphasized.  Use of measuring instruments, hand tools, lathe, mill, drill press, bandsaw, grinder, welding equipment.",""],"ENGRMAE 60":["ENGRMAE","Electric Circuits","Design and analysis of analog circuits based on lumped circuit elements with emphasis on the use of operational amplifiers. Sinusoidal and transient response. Constructional and laboratory testing of analog circuits, and introduction to data acquisition. Materials fee.","PHYSICS 7D and PHYSICS 7LD"],"ENGRMAE 80":["ENGRMAE","Dynamics","Introduction to the kinematics and dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. The Newton-Euler, Work\/Energy, and Impulse\/Momentum methods are explored for ascertaining the dynamics of particles and rigid bodies. An engineering design problem using these fundamental principles is also undertaken.","MATH 2D and PHYSICS 7C"],"ENGRMAE 91":["ENGRMAE","Introduction to Thermodynamics","Thermodynamic principles; open and closed systems representative of engineering problems. First and second law of thermodynamics with applications to engineering systems and design.","PHYSICS 7C and MATH 2D"],"ENGRMAE 93":["ENGRMAE","Topics in Design Project       ","Early-stage design\/hands-on experience for students, and allows them to participate alongside seniors in the design project.",""],"ENGRMAE 106":["ENGRMAE","Mechanical Systems Laboratory","Experiments in linear systems, including op-amp circuits, vibrations, and control systems. Emphasis on demonstrating that mathematical models can be useful tools for the analysis and design of electro-mechanical systems.  Materials fee.","ENGRMAE 60 or EECS 70A"],"ENGRMAE 107":["ENGRMAE","Fluid Thermal Science Laboratory","Fluid and thermal engineering laboratory. Experimental analysis of fluid flow, heat transfer, and thermodynamic systems. Probability, statistics, and uncertainly analysis. Report writing is emphasized and a design project is required. Materials fee.",""],"ENGRMAE 108":["ENGRMAE","Aerospace Laboratory","Analytical and experimental investigation in aerodynamics, fluid dynamics, and heat transfer. Emphasis on study of flow over objects and lift and drag on airfoils. Introduction to basic diagnostic techniques. Report writing is emphasized.","ENGRMAE 130B"],"ENGRMAE 110":["ENGRMAE","Combustion and Fuel Cell Systems","Fundamentals of gaseous, liquid, and coal-fired combustion and fuel cell systems. Fuels, fuel-air mixing, aerodynamics, and combustion and fuel cell thermodynamics. Operating and design aspects of practical systems including engines, power generators, boilers, furnaces, and incinerators.","ENGRMAE 115"],"ENGRMAE 112":["ENGRMAE","Propulsion","Application of thermodynamics and fluid mechanics to basic flow processes and cycle performance in chemical propulsion systems: gas turbines, ramjets, scramjets, and rockets. Introduction to electric and electromagnetic rocket thrusters, nuclear rockets, and solar sails.","ENGRMAE 135"],"ENGRMAE 113":["ENGRMAE","Electric Propulsion","Space propulsion requirements and maneuvers, stressing those best suited to electric propulsion. An introduction to plasma physics. Electrothermal, electromagnetic, and electrostatis accelerators, with emphasis in technologies (ion engines, Hall thrusters, and colloidal thrusters) belonging to the latter family.","ENGRMAE 112"],"ENGRMAE 114":["ENGRMAE","Fuel Cell Fundamentals and Technology","Introduction to electrochemistry and electrocatalysis; nature of fuel-cell electrodes and electrolytes; charge transfer reactions at interfaces; charge transport and mass transport processes; fuel processing reactions; determination of fuel cell efficiency, fuel flexibility, emissions, and other characteristics.","ENGRMAE 115"],"ENGRMAE 115":["ENGRMAE","Applied Engineering Thermodynamics","Application of thermodynamic principles to compressible and incompressible processes representative of practical engineering problems; power cycles, refrigeration cycles, multicomponent mixtures, air conditioning systems, combustion, and compressible flow. Design of a thermodynamic process.","ENGRMAE 91 or CBE 40B or ENGRMSE 65A"],"ENGRMAE 117":["ENGRMAE","Solar and Renewable Energy Systems","Basic principles, design, and operation of solar and other renewable energy systems including solar photo-voltaic, solar thermal, wind, and PEM fuel cell. Includes power generation and storage, and renewable fuels for transportation and stationary power generation.","(ENGRMAE 91 or CBE 40B)"],"ENGRMAE 118":["ENGRMAE","Sustainable Energy Systems","Basic principles, design, and operation of sustainable energy systems including wind, solar photo-voltaic and thermal, hydroelectric, geothermal, oceanic, biomass combustion, advanced coal, and next generation nuclear. Includes power generation, storage, and transmission for stationary power generation.","ENGRMAE 115"],"ENGRMAE 119":["ENGRMAE","Climate Solutions","Introduction to climate change science and impacts on the health of people and the planet with a focus on the multi-dimensional aspects of solutions to the climate crisis.",""],"ENGRMAE 120":["ENGRMAE","Heat and Mass Transfer","Fundamentals of heat and mass transfer. Conduction, heat and mass transfer by convection in laminar flow, radiation heat transfer, and combined modes of heat and mass transfer. Practical engineering applications.","ENGRMAE 130B"],"ENGRMAE 130A":["ENGRMAE","Fluid Dynamics I","Fundamental concepts; fluid statics; kinematics; incompressible and compressible flows; Bernoulli's equation; control-volume analysis; conservation of mass, momentum, and energy; differential analysis; introduction to potential flow and viscous flow.","PHYSICS 7C and MATH 2D and MATH 2E and MATH 3D and (ENGRMAE 30 or ENGRCEE 30 or ENGR 30) and (ENGRMAE 80 or ENGRCEE 80 or ENGR 80). PHYSICS 7C with a grade of C- or better. MATH 2D with a grade of C- or better. MATH 2E with a grade of C- or better. MATH 3D with a grade of C- or better. ENGRMAE 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGRCEE 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGR 30 with a grade of C- or better. ENGRMAE 80 with a grade of C- or better. ENGRCEE 80 with a grade of C- or better. ENGR 80 with a grade of C- or better"],"ENGRMAE 130B":["ENGRMAE","Fluid Dynamics II","Analysis  of viscous flows: stress-strain rate, fully developed laminar and turbulent flows. Review of thermodynamics, sound speed, stagnation properties. One dimensional isentropic and non-isentropic compressible flows.  Normal and oblique shock waves. Two-dimensional supersonic  isentropic flow.","ENGRMAE 130A"],"ENGRMAE 130C":["ENGRMAE","Fluid Mechanics III","Advanced topics in viscous and compressible flows. Viscous boundary layers, basic concepts in turbulent flow, separated flows, thermal transport, two-dimensional supersonic flow, shock polars, supersonic airfoils, conical flows.","ENGRMAE 130B"],"ENGRMAE 132":["ENGRMAE","Computational Fluid Dynamics","Introduction to computational fluid dynamics in simple engineering devices. The numerical simulations will be performed via the widely-used software ANSYS-Fluent. While Fluent is the choice of software, all major CFD packages are based on a similar numerical method.","ENGRMAE 130B. ENGRMAE 130B with a grade of C- or better"],"ENGRMAE 135":["ENGRMAE","Compressible Flow","Compressibility effects in fluid mechanics. One-dimensional flow with area variation, friction, heat transfer, and shocks. Design of gas supply systems. Two-dimensional flow with oblique shocks and isentropic waves. Supersonic airfoil theory and design, wind tunnel design. Basic diagnostics.","ENGRMAE 130A"],"ENGRMAE 136":["ENGRMAE","Aerodynamics","Advanced potential flow, vorticity, and  circulation. Flow over aircraft wings and airfoils: Kutta-Joukowski theory, lift, moment, and drag. Flow similitude; three dimensional wing theory, compressibility, viscous effects. Source panel methods. Supersonic aerodynamics.","ENGRMAE 130B"],"ENGRMAE 145":["ENGRMAE","Theory of Machines and Mechanisms","Presents the basic mathematical theory of machines. Focuses on the principles of cam design, gearing and gear train analysis, and the kinematic and dynamic analysis of linkages, together with an introduction to robotics.","ENGRMAE 52 and (ENGRMAE 80 or ENGRCEE 80 or ENGR 80) and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N)"],"ENGRMAE 146":["ENGRMAE","Astronautics","Motion in gravitational force fields, orbit transfers, rocketry, interplanetary trajectories, attitude dynamics and stabilization, navigation, reentry, the space environment.","ENGRMAE 80 or ENGRCEE 80 or ENGR 80"],"ENGRMAE 147":["ENGRMAE","Vibrations","Analysis of structural vibrations of mechanical systems. Modeling for lumped and distributed parameter systems. Topics include single and multi-degree of freedom systems, free and forced vibrations, Fourier series, convolution integral, mass\/stiffness matrices, and normal modes with design project.","(ENGR 80 or ENGRCEE 80 or ENGRMAE 80) and MATH 2E and MATH 3D"],"ENGRMAE 148":["ENGRMAE","Mechanics of Smart Structures","Introduction to modeling, numerical simulation, design, and control of axial, torsional, and bending actuators. Fundamentals of shape-changing trusses, frames, and panels. Introduction to the behavior and modeling of smart materials such as shape memory alloys\/polymers.","ENGRMAE 150"],"ENGRMAE 150":["ENGRMAE","Mechanics of Structures","Introduction to mechanics of materials. Topics include stresses and strains, axial and torsional loading, bending, shear, combined loading, stress and strain transformation, failure theories, beam deflection, and buckling.","(ENGRCEE 30 or ENGR 30 or ENGRMAE 30) and MATH 3A"],"ENGRMAE 150L":["ENGRMAE","Mechanics of Structures Laboratory","Experimental techniques for the measurement of mechanical properties of materials and structures. Methods for load, displacement, and strain measurements. Tension, bending, compression tests. Determination of strength. Materials fee.","ENGRMAE 30 or ENGR 30 or ENGRCEE 30"],"ENGRMAE 151":["ENGRMAE","Mechanical Engineering Design","A comprehensive group design project experience that involves identifying customer needs, idea generation, reverse engineering, preliminary design, standards, prototype development, testing, analysis, and redesign of a product involving fluid, thermal, and mechanical components.  Introduces design for manufacturing and the environment. Materials fee.","ENGRMAE 120 and ENGRMAE 145"],"ENGRMAE 152":["ENGRMAE","Introduction to Computer-Aided Engineering","Elements and principles of computer-aided engineering with modern hardware and software are presented with a design focus. Case studies are used to assist in finite-element method techniques. Not offered every year.","(ENGRMAE 150 or ENGR 150) and ENGRMAE 120"],"ENGRMAE 153":["ENGRMAE","Advanced BIOMEMS Manufacturing Techniques","Introduction to BIOMEMS. Advanced biotechnology\/biomedicine equipment based on MEMS and NEMS. Fundamentals of MEMS\/NEMS sensing techniques and the biological and physics principles involved and the preferred MEMS and NEMS manufacturing techniques.",""],"ENGRMAE 155":["ENGRMAE","Composite Materials and Structures","Micro and macro mechanical properties and failure mechanisms of lamina and laminates. Laminate theory, hygrothermal effects, failure analysis and design. Manufacturing methods, non-destructive evaluation, experimental characterization. Application of numerical modeling for analysis and design.","ENGR 54 and (ENGRMAE 150 or ENGRCEE 150 or ENGR 150)"],"ENGRMAE 156":["ENGRMAE","Mechanical Behavior and Design Principles","Principles governing structure and mechanical behavior of materials, relationship relating microstructure and mechanical response with application to elasticity, plasticity, yielding, necking, creep, and fracture of materials. Introduction to experimental techniques to characterize the properties of materials. Design parameters.","ENGR 54"],"ENGRMAE 157":["ENGRMAE","Lightweight Structures","Mass minimization under stiffness, strength, and buckling constraints. Finite Element method and application to trusses. Three-dimensional bending. Thin-wall, composite, and functionally graded beams. Plates and shells, design of laminated and functionally graded plates. Stress analysis of aircraft components.","ENGR 150 or ENGRCEE 150 or ENGRMAE 150"],"ENGRMAE 158":["ENGRMAE","Aircraft Performance","Flight theory applied to subsonic propeller and jet aircraft. Nature of aerodynamic forces, drag and lift of wing and fuselage, high-lift devices, level-flight performance, climb and glide performance, range, endurance, take-off and landing distances, static and dynamic stability and control.","ENGRMAE 130A"],"ENGRMAE 159":["ENGRMAE","Aircraft Design","Preliminary design of subsonic general aviation and transport aircraft with emphasis on layout, aerodynamic design, propulsion, and performance. Estimation of total weight and weight distribution, design of wings, fuselage, and tail, selection and location of engines, prediction of overall performance.","ENGRMAE 112 and ENGRMAE 136 and ENGRMAE 158"],"ENGRMAE 163":["ENGRMAE","Aviation Systems and the Environment","Methods for analyzing aviation systems, flight and engine performance, and operations, and associated modern environmental challenges, including fuel burn, emissions, and noise are introduced. Analysis methods and technological and policy approaches for environmental impact mitigation examined.","ENGRMAE 80 or ENGRMAE 91 or ENGRMAE 107"],"ENGRMAE 164":["ENGRMAE","Air Pollution and Control","Sources, dispersion, and effects of air pollutants. Topics include emission factors, emission inventory, air pollution, meteorology, air chemistry, air quality modeling, impact assessment, source and ambient monitoring, regional control strategies.","(ENGRMAE 91 or CBE 40B) and ENGRMAE 130A"],"ENGRMAE 170":["ENGRMAE","Introduction to Control Systems","Feedback control systems. Modeling, stability, and systems specifications. Root locus, Nyquist, and Bode methods of analysis and design.","ENGRMAE 80 or ENGRCEE 80 or ENGR 80"],"ENGRMAE 171":["ENGRMAE","Digital Control Systems","Methods for analysis and design of discrete-time control systems. Z-transforms, difference equations, discrete Fourier transforms. Sampling theorem and applications.  Z-plane stability, frequency response. Digital controller design. Introduction to digital filters.","ENGRMAE 170"],"ENGRMAE 172":["ENGRMAE","Design of Computer-Controlled Robots","Students design a small robotic device and program it to exhibit sentient behaviors. The basic aspects of mechatronic design are covered, including motor and sensor selection, control strategies, and microcomputer programming for the implementation of control paradigms.  Materials fee.","ENGRMAE 170"],"ENGRMAE 175":["ENGRMAE","Dynamics and Control of Aerospace Vehicles","Equations of motion, linearization, stability derivatives, and longitudinal and lateral modes of motion. Handling qualities, sensors and actuators, and effects of various feedbacks on stability and performance. Stability augmentation. Autopilot design.",""],"ENGRMAE 182":["ENGRMAE","Introduction to Machine Learning","Fundamental principles necessary to understand statistical learning methods. Introduction to the R programming language. Mathematical foundation for various machine learning algorithms. Computer implementation.",""],"ENGRMAE 183":["ENGRMAE","Computer-Aided Mechanism Design","Focuses on design of planar, spherical, and spatial mechanisms using computer algebra and graphics. Topics include exact and approximate analytical design techniques. Students are required to use existing software (or develop new algorithms) to design various mechanisms for new applications.","MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N"],"ENGRMAE 184":["ENGRMAE","Fundamentals of Experimental Design","Review of statistics as applied to experimental research. Fundamentals and principles of statistical experimental design and analysis with emphasis on understanding and use of designed experiments, response surfaces, linear regression modeling, and process optimization.",""],"ENGRMAE 185":["ENGRMAE","Numerical Analysis in Mechanical Engineering","Solution of mechanical-engineering equations by means of numerical methods. Errors in numerical analysis. Nonlinear equation and sets of equations. Numerical differentiation and integration. Ordinary differential equations. Boundary-value problems. Partial differential equations.","(ENGRMAE 10 or EECS 10 or EECS 12 or BME 60B) and MATH 3D and MATH 2E"],"ENGRMAE 188":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Design in Industry","Principles of engineering design in the context of an industrial application. Local manufacturing firms define an engineering design project to be completed in 10 weeks. Projects include initial brainstorming to final design, with a formal presentation.",""],"ENGRMAE 189":["ENGRMAE","Senior Project - Special Topics","Group or individual senior project of theoretical or applied nature involving design. Materials fee.",""],"ENGRMAE 193":["ENGRMAE","Topics in MAE Design","Provides early-stage design\/hands-on experience for upper-division students, and allows them to participate in senior design projects course ENGRMAE 189.",""],"ENGRMAE 195":["ENGRMAE","Seminars in Engineering","Seminars by individual faculty in major fields of interest. Materials fee.",""],"ENGRMAE 198":["ENGRMAE","Group Study","Group study of selected topics in Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering.",""],"ENGRMAE 199":["ENGRMAE","Individual Study","For undergraduate Engineering majors in supervised but independent reading, research, or design. Students taking individual study for design credit are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGRMAE 199P":["ENGRMAE","Individual Study","For undergraduate Engineering majors in supervised but independent reading, research, or design. Students taking individual study for design are to submit a written paper to the instructor and to the Undergraduate Student Affairs Office in the School of Engineering.",""],"ENGRMAE 200A":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Analysis I","Linear algebra, including vector spaces, matrices, linear systems of equations, least squares, and the eigenvalue problem. Ordinary differential equations, including analytical and numerical solution methods, stability, and phase portraits.",""],"ENGRMAE 200B":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Analysis II","Review of ordinary differential equations, including Bessel and Legendre functions. Partial differential equations, including the diffusion equation, Laplace's equation, and the wave equation. Fourier series, Fourier and Laplace transforms and their applications.",""],"ENGRMAE 200P":["ENGRMAE","Integrated Thermal-Fluid Science Fundamentals","The fundamentals of thermodynamics, fluid dynamics, and heat transfer are first.",""],"ENGRMAE 201P":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Design and Simulation: Tools and Process","Practical techniques and use of industry tools that improve the engineering design process by simulating the performance of design options prior to the costly steps of prototyping and manufacturing are covered. Applicable to a wide variety of engineering disciplines.",""],"ENGRMAE 205":["ENGRMAE","Perturbation Methods in Engineering","Asymptotic Expansions of integrals. Regular and singular perturbations. Perturbation methods for ordinary and partial differential equations. Matched asymptotic expansions. Multiple-scale asymptotic expansion schemes. Not offered every year.","ENGRMAE 200A and ENGRMAE 200B. Knowledge of linear differential equations."],"ENGRMAE 206":["ENGRMAE","Nonlinear Optimization Methods","Numerical methods for constrained and unconstrained optimization. Necessary and sufficient conditions for optimimality. Conjugate gradient, variable metric algorithms. Gradient projection, penalty functions, and Lagrange methods. Not offered every year.","ENGRMAE 200A"],"ENGRMAE 209P":["ENGRMAE","Energy Efficiency in the Built Environment","Energy and power for the built environment; building energy modeling; heat transfer and losses; heating and cooling cycles; control hardware and software; carbon neutrality, optimization.",""],"ENGRMAE 210":["ENGRMAE","Advanced Fundamentals of Combustion","Premixed, nonpremixed, and heterogenous reactions, with emphasis on kinetics, thermal ignition, turbulent flame propogation, detonations, explosions, flammability limits, diffusion flame, quenching, flame stabilization, and particle and spray combustion. Not offered every year.","ENGRMAE 224 or ENGRMAE 230B"],"ENGRMAE 210P":["ENGRMAE","Fundamentals and Applications of Combustion","Premixed, nonpremixed, and heterogenous reactions, with emphasis on kinetics, thermal ignition, turbulent flame propogation, detonations, explosions, flammability limits, diffusion flame, quenching, flame stabilization, and particle and spray combustion.",""],"ENGRMAE 211P":["ENGRMAE","Energy Storage Systems and Technology","Basic principles, design, and operation of energy storage systems and technology including lithium ion battery systems for transportation and stationary applications, for flow batteries (e.g., vanadium redox, sodium sulfur), and for reversible fuel cell electrolyzer systems and hydrogen energy storage.","Required: Undergraduate-level knowledge of applied engineering thermodynamics."],"ENGRMAE 212":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Electrochemistry: Fundamentals and Applications","Introduction to engineering electrochemistry fundamentals and applications. Examine thermodynamics and transport principles in typical electrochemical systems. Electrochemical sensors, batteries, fuel cells, and supercapacitors. Manufacturing aspects will also be covered.",""],"ENGRMAE 212P":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Electrochemistry: Fundamentals and Applications","Introduction to engineering electrochemistry fundamentals and applications. Examine thermodynamics and transport principles in typical electrochemical systems. Electrochemical sensors, batteries, fuel cells, and supercapacitors. Manufacturing aspects are also covered.",""],"ENGRMAE 213":["ENGRMAE","Electric Propulsion","Space propulsion requirements and maneuvers, stressing those best suited to electric propulsion. An introduction to plasma physics. Electrothermal, electromagnetic and electrostatic accelerators, with emphasis in technologies (ion engines, Hall thrusters and colloidal thrusters) belonging to the latter family.",""],"ENGRMAE 214A":["ENGRMAE","Fuel Cell Fundamentals and Technology","Introduction to electrochemistry and electrocatalysis; nature of fuel-cell electrodes and electrolytes; charge transfer reactions at interfaces; charge transport and mass transport processes; fuel processing reactions; determination of fuel cell efficiency, fuel flexibility, emissions and other characteristics.",""],"ENGRMAE 214B":["ENGRMAE","Fuel Cell Systems and Degradation","Fuel cell systems design; impacts of operating conditions; experimental and theoretical analysis methods for fuel cells systems; introduction to degradation mechanisms and mitigation techniques; provides broad insight into fuel-cell science, technology, system design and operation.  Offered every other year.","ENGRMAE 214A"],"ENGRMAE 214C":["ENGRMAE","PEM Fuel Cells       ","In-depth introduction to the fundamental principles of PEM fuel cells, including thermodynamics, kinetics, transport, cold start, manufacturing, and experiment.","ENGRMAE 214A"],"ENGRMAE 214P":["ENGRMAE","Fuel Cell Fundamentals and Technology","Introduction to electrochemistry and electrocatalysis; nature of fuel-cell electrodes and electrolytes; charge transfer reactions at interfaces; charge transport and mass transport processes; fuel processing reactions; determination of fuel cell efficiency, fuel flexibility, emissions, and other characteristics.",""],"ENGRMAE 215":["ENGRMAE","Advanced Combustion Technology","Pollutant formation and experimental methods. Formation of gaseous pollutants and soot; transformation and emission of fuel contaminants in gas, liquid, and solid fuel combustion; methods employed to measure velocity, turbulence intensity, temperature, composition, particle size; methods to visualize reacting flows.","ENGRMAE 200A and (ENGRMAE 230A or ENGRMAE 270A)"],"ENGRMAE 216":["ENGRMAE","Statistical Thermodynamics","Statistics of independent particles, development of quantum mechanical description of atoms and molecules, application of quantum mechanics, evaluation of thermodynamics properties for solids, liquids, and gases, statistical mechanics of dependent particles (ensembles).",""],"ENGRMAE 217":["ENGRMAE","Generalized Thermodynamics","Generalized thermodynamics develops the laws of continuum thermodynamics from a set of plausible and intuitive postulates. The postulates are motivated qualitatively by a statistical description of matter and are justified by a posterior success for the resulting theory.",""],"ENGRMAE 217P":["ENGRMAE","Generalized Thermodynamics","Generalized thermodynamics develops the laws of continuum thermodynamics from a set of plausible and intuitive postulates. The postulates are motivated qualitatively by a statistical description of matter and are justified by a posterior success for the resulting theory.",""],"ENGRMAE 218":["ENGRMAE","Sustainable Energy Systems","Basic principles, design and operation of sustainable energy systems including wind, solar photo-voltaic and thermal, hydroelectric, geothermal, oceanic, biomass combustion, advanced coal and next generation nuclear.  Includes power generation, storage, and transmission for stationary power generation.",""],"ENGRMAE 218P":["ENGRMAE","Sustainable Energy Systems","Basic principles, design, and operation of sustainable energy systems including wind, solar photo-voltaic and thermal, hydroelectric, geothermal, oceanic, biomass combustion, advanced coal, and next generation nuclear. Includes power generation, storage, and transmission for stationary power generation.",""],"ENGRMAE 219P":["ENGRMAE","Solar and Renewable Energy Systems","Basic principles, design, and operation of solar and other renewable energy systems including solar photo-voltaic, solar thermal, wind, and PEM fuel cell. Includes power generation and storage, and renewable fuels for transportation and stationary power generation.","Required: Knowledge of applied engineering thermodynamics."],"ENGRMAE 220":["ENGRMAE","Conduction Heat Transfer","Steady state and transient conduction heat transfer in one- and multi-dimensional geometries. Analytical methods, exact and approximate. Numerical techniques are also included.",""],"ENGRMAE 221":["ENGRMAE","Convective Heat and Mass Transfer","Fundamental convective heat transfer for various cases, including flow conditions, flow phases, and boundary conditions. Analysis of heat convection by exact, approximate solutions, and similarity solutions. Boundary layer theory and equations.","ENGRMAE 230B"],"ENGRMAE 222":["ENGRMAE","Radiative Heat Transfer","Black body radiation.  Radiative transport equations for surfaces separated by non-participating media.  Radiant energy transfer through absorbing, emitting, and scattering media. Radiation-conduction interaction.  Radiation-convection interaction.  Introduction to finite-difference solutions.",""],"ENGRMAE 223A":["ENGRMAE","Numerical Methods in Heat, Mass, and Momentum Transport (Laminar Flows) I","Introduction to the discretization of various types of partial differential equations (parabolic, elliptic, hyperbolic). Finite-volume discretization for one- and two-dimensional flows. Use of a two-dimensional elliptic procedure to predict sample laminar flows.","r corequisite: ENGRMAE 230A"],"ENGRMAE 224":["ENGRMAE","Advanced Transport Phenomena","Fundamentals of transport phenomena. Covers the subjects of conservation equations, dimensionless numbers, fundamentals of diffusion, perturbation methods, ion transport, two-phase transport, and interfacial phenomena.",""],"ENGRMAE 227":["ENGRMAE","Thermal Resistance Analysis in Microdevices and Nanomaterials","Heat transfer and thermal resistance analysis relevant for microdevices and nanomaterials. Overview of recent progress in nanotechnology and materials science. Thermal modeling strategies for novel electronic devices and energy conversion systems.",""],"ENGRMAE 228":["ENGRMAE","Nanoscale Phase Change Transport Physics","Discusses a wide range of phase change processes (i.e., evaporation, boiling, condensation, and freezing) through the use of novel thermal metamaterials with the aim of enhancing phase change performances.","Undergraduate-level heat transfer is recommended."],"ENGRMAE 229P":["ENGRMAE","Nanoscale Materials for Modern Electronics","Introduction to design and synthesis of nanomaterials. Topics include thermal and liquid transport in materials systems, phase change heat transfer physics, and mechanical properties in materials systems.","Required: Undergraduate-level knowledge of heat transfer."],"ENGRMAE 230A":["ENGRMAE","Inviscid Incompressible Fluid Mechanics I","Equations of motion. Vector notation. Flow kinematics. Potential flow and complex potential. Vorticity and circulation. Bernoulli's theorem. Crocco's theorem. Conformal, Joukowski, and Schwarz-Christoffel transformations.",""],"ENGRMAE 230B":["ENGRMAE","Viscous Incompressible Fluid Mechanics II","Review of mass, momentum, energy equations. Stress tensor, constitutive relations. Laminar flows. Stokes and Oseen flows. Self-similarity. Boundary layer theory: thin-layer approximation, Falkner-Skan, Blasius solutions, integral methods. Jet, wake, cavity flows. Introduction to turbulence: instability, Reynolds averaging, mixing length.",""],"ENGRMAE 230C":["ENGRMAE","Compressible Fluid Dynamics","One-dimensional unsteady flow; Riemann invariants, acoustics, shock tube. Two-dimensional flow: shock polars, linear theory, similarity rules, method of characteristics. Three dimensional flow: slender-body theory.  Effects of viscosity and conductivity:  laminar boundary layer, Crocco-Busemann relations.","ENGRMAE 230A or ENGRMAE 230B"],"ENGRMAE 231":["ENGRMAE","Fundamentals of Turbulence","Phenomenon of turbulence. Reynolds equations. Dynamics of turbulence. Free turbulent shear flows. Wall-bounded turbulent shear flows. Turbulent transport of scalar quantities. Spectral dynamics. Mathematical models of turbulence.","ENGRMAE 230A and ENGRMAE 230B"],"ENGRMAE 233":["ENGRMAE","Turbulent Free Shear Flows","Practical and theoretical aspects of turbulent free shear flows. Instability, global scaling laws, mixing, and noise generation in incompressible and compressible shear layers, jets, and wakes. Kelvin-Helmholtz instability, near- and far-field growth rates, effect of compressibility, aeroacoustics of jets.","ENGRMAE 200B and ENGRMAE 230A and ENGRMAE 230B"],"ENGRMAE 236":["ENGRMAE","Nonequilibrium Gas Dynamics","Molecular description of fluid flow. Boltzmann equation. Chapman-Enskog expansion for flows with translational nonequilibrium. Shock structure. Inviscid flows with chemical and vibrational nonequilibrium. Not offered every year.","ENGRMAE 230C"],"ENGRMAE 237":["ENGRMAE","Computational Fluid Dynamics","Mathematical, physical, and computational fundamentals of computational fluid dynamics, numerical methods for solving the Euler and Navier-Stokes equations. Topics include: finite-difference and finite-volume discretization, time marching methods, von Neumann analysis, upwinding, flux splitting, TVD, and other high-resolution shock-capturing schemes.","ENGRMAE 230C"],"ENGRMAE 239":["ENGRMAE","Dynamics of Unsteady Flows","Unsteady potential flow modeling (Kelvin's circulation theorem, unsteady Bernoulli's equation). Theodorsen's frequency response, Wagner's step response, and the Kussner sharp-edged gust. State Space approximations for Unsteady Loads. Vortex Lattice. Flutter.","ENGRMAE 230A is recommended."],"ENGRMAE 240":["ENGRMAE","Inertial Navigation","Provides a basic understanding of 1) theory, operation, and performance characteristics of a strapdown inertial navigation system  (INS), (2) distinction between strap down and gimbaled INS, (3) Kalman filtering theory and its application to strap down INS aiding.",""],"ENGRMAE 241":["ENGRMAE","Dynamics","Kinematics and dynamics of three-dimensional motions. Lagrange's equations, Newton-Euler equations. Applications include robot systems and spinning satellites.",""],"ENGRMAE 242":["ENGRMAE","Robotics","Spatial rigid-body transformations.  Forward and inverse kinematics. Jacobian of serial and parallel chains.  Screw coordinates and transformations. Rate and static analyses using screw theory. Singularity analysis. Trajectory generation. Not offered every year.",""],"ENGRMAE 245":["ENGRMAE","Spatial Mechanism Design","Fundamental kinematic theory required for planar, spherical, and spatial mechanism design. The focus is on algebraic methods for the exact solution of constraint equations. Not offered every year.",""],"ENGRMAE 247":["ENGRMAE","Micro-System Design","Covers the fundamentals of the many disciplines needed for design of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS): microfabrication technology, structural mechanics on micro-scale, electrostatics, circuit interface, control, computer-aided design, and system integration.",""],"ENGRMAE 247P":["ENGRMAE","Micro-System Design","Covers the fundamentals of the many disciplines needed for design of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS): microfabrication technology, structural mechanics on micro-scale, electrostatics, circuit interface, control, computer-aided design, and system integration.",""],"ENGRMAE 248":["ENGRMAE","Mechanics of Smart Structures","Modeling, numerical simulation, design, and control of axial, torsional, and bending actuators. Structural analysis of shape-changing trusses, frames, and panels. Behavior and modeling of smart materials such as shape memory alloys\/polymers.",""],"ENGRMAE 249":["ENGRMAE","Micro-Sensors and Actuators","Introduction to the technology of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS). Fundamental principles and applications of important microsensors, actuation principles on microscale.  Introduction to the elements of signal processing; processing of materials for micro sensor\/actuator fabrication; smart sensors and microsensor\/microactuator array devices.",""],"ENGRMAE 249P":["ENGRMAE","Micro-Sensors and Actuators","Introduction to the technology of Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS). Fundamental principles and applications of important microsensors, actuation principles on microscale. Introduction to the elements of signal processing; processing of materials for micro sensor\/actuator fabrication; smart sensors and microsensor\/microactuator array devices.",""],"ENGRMAE 250":["ENGRMAE","Biorobotics","Sensors, actuators, and neural circuits for biological movement control from an engineering perspective.  Current approaches to robotic and mechatronic devices that support and enhance human movement in health and following neurologic injuries like stroke and spinal cord injury.",""],"ENGRMAE 251":["ENGRMAE","Micro\/Nano Robotics","Covers the emerging field of robotics at small scale (micro\/nano robotics). Understanding different physical phenomena at small scales, the differences between nano and micro robotics, common fabrication, and different mechanisms of locomotion and environmental interaction.",""],"ENGRMAE 252":["ENGRMAE","Fundamentals of Microfabrication","Introduces Engineering and Science students to the science of miniaturization. Different options to make very small machines (micro and nano size) are reviewed, materials choices are discussed, scaling laws are analyzed, and many practical applications are listed.",""],"ENGRMAE 252P":["ENGRMAE","Fundamentals of Microfabrication","Introduces engineering and science students to the science of miniaturization. Different options to make very small machines (micro and nano size) are reviewed, materials choices are discussed, scaling laws are analyzed, and many practical applications are listed.",""],"ENGRMAE 253":["ENGRMAE","Advanced BIOMEMS Manufacturing Techniques","Introduction to BIOMEMS. Advanced biotechnology\/biomedicine equipment based on MEMS and NEMS. Fundamentals of MEMS\/NEMS sensing techniques and the biological and physics principles involved and the preferred MEMS and NEMS manufacturing techniques.",""],"ENGRMAE 254":["ENGRMAE","Mechanics of Solids and Structures","Finite deformation kinematics; stress and strain measures; invariance in solid mechanics; objective rates; constitutive theory of elastic and inelastic solids; rate formulations; computational approaches; theories of plates and shells; applications to aerospace vehicles.",""],"ENGRMAE 254P":["ENGRMAE","Mechanics of Solids and Structures","Finite deformation kinematics; stress and strain measures; invariance in solid mechanics; objective rates; constitutive theory of elastic and inelastic solids; rate formulations; computational approaches; theories of plates and shells; applications to aerospace vehicles.",""],"ENGRMAE 255":["ENGRMAE","Composite Materials and Structures","Motivation for composite materials. Different classifications according to the nature of the matrix (PMC, MMC, CMC) and the reinforcement topology (fibers, whiskers, particulates). Mechanical properties. Failure mechanisms. Designing with composite materials. Advantages and limitations of homogenization techniques for numerical modeling.",""],"ENGRMAE 256":["ENGRMAE","Nanomechanics","Nanoscale materials and the experimental and computational techniques used to measure their properties.  Mechanical behavior is the main focus, but other material properties such as diffusion and electron transport are discussed.",""],"ENGRMAE 257":["ENGRMAE","Materials Failure and Fracture","Introduces materials failure and fracture behaviors under mechanical, thermal, and environmental conditions. It aims to provide a solid foundation and basic understanding of classic fatigue and fracture problems, and their underlying physical mechanisms.",""],"ENGRMAE 257P":["ENGRMAE","Fabrication and Characterization of Nanomaterials ","Introduction to nanoscale materials and experimental and computational techniques. Topics materials synthesis techniques, thin film deposition, nanoparticle and nanowire growth, characterization with electrons and X-rays, forces and surface interactions at the nanoscale, structure-property scaling laws, and atomistic\/multiscale computer modeling.",""],"ENGRMAE 258":["ENGRMAE","Mechanical Behavior of Solids - Continuum Theories","Presents a continuum, macroscopic view of deformation and failure of solids. Covers elasticity, plasticity, visco-elasticity, visco-plasticity, fracture and fatigue. Topics include discussions of physical behavior, mathematical formalism and measurement techniques.","ENGRMAE 254"],"ENGRMAE 259":["ENGRMAE","Mechanical Behavior of Solids - Atomistic Theories","Presents atomistic mechanisms that control mechanical behavior of materials. Covers plasticity, dislocation theory, strengthening mechanisms, high-temperature diffusion and gain boundary sliding, shear localization, void formation, ductile rupture, brittle fracture and fatigue.",""],"ENGRMAE 259P":["ENGRMAE","Mechanical Behavior of Solids - Atomistic Theories","Presents atomistic mechanisms that control mechanical behavior of materials. Covers plasticity, dislocation theory, strengthening mechanisms, high-temperature diffusion and gain boundary sliding, shear localization, void formation, ductile rupture, brittle fracture, and fatigue.",""],"ENGRMAE 260":["ENGRMAE","Current Issues Related to Air Quality, Climate, and Energy","Current issues related to the atmosphere, climate, and air quality in the context of energy conversion and sustainability. Topics include transportation systems; building design; impacts on humans and ecosystems; modeling and meteorology; economics; and application to public policies.","ENGRMAE 261 or CHEM 245 or EARTHSS 240"],"ENGRMAE 263":["ENGRMAE","Aviation Systems and the Environment","Methods for analyzing aviation systems, flight and engine performance, operations, and associated modern environmental challenges, including fuel burn, emissions, and noise are introduced. Analysis methods and technological and policy approaches for environmental impact mitigation examined.",""],"ENGRMAE 270A":["ENGRMAE","Linear Systems I","Input-output and state-space representations of continuous-time linear systems. State transition matrices,  Controllability and observability. Irreducible realizations.  State feedback and observer design.",""],"ENGRMAE 271":["ENGRMAE","Network Control","Provides foundations on graph-theoretic, probabilistic and analytic techniques that have proven instrumental for studying networked dynamical systems. Applications are presented in diverse areas of science and engineering that include the coordination of vehicles and distribution of energy and resources.",""],"ENGRMAE 272":["ENGRMAE","Robust Control Theory","Methods for control design of systems with uncertainty. Feedback stability and small gain theorem. Multivariable stability margins and multiplier theory. H-infinity-optimal control, linear matrix inequalities. Not offered every year.","ENGRMAE 270A"],"ENGRMAE 273":["ENGRMAE","Stochastic Control","Introduction to the tools stochastic differential equations and stochastic control. Focus on optimal control of dynamical systems in the presence of stochastic noise. Basic concepts are also central in various branches of theoretical physics and mathematical finance; examples are discussed.",""],"ENGRMAE 274":["ENGRMAE","Optimal Control","Principles and methods of optimal control. Topics include objectives and issues in controlling nonlinear systems; linear variational and adjoint equations; optimality conditions via variational calculus, maximum principle, and dynamic programming; solution methods; applications to control robots and aerospace vehicles.","ENGRMAE 200A and ENGRMAE 270A"],"ENGRMAE 275":["ENGRMAE","Nonlinear Feedback Systems","Advanced tools for feedback control system analysis and synthesis. Norms, operators, Lp spaces, contraction mapping theorem, Lyapunov techniques along with their extensions. Circle criterion positivity and passivity. Applications to nonlinear control methods, such as sliding mode or adaptive techniques.","ENGRMAE 270B"],"ENGRMAE 276":["ENGRMAE","Geometric Nonlinear Control","Using the mathematics of differential geometry, a number of the concepts and results of linear systems theory have been extended to nonlinear systems. Describes these extensions and illustrate their use in nonlinear system analysis and design. Not offered every year.","ENGRMAE 200A and ENGRMAE 270A"],"ENGRMAE 277":["ENGRMAE","Learning Control Systems","Supervised learning for classification and regression: perceptrons, support vector machines, feed-forward neural networks, Gaussian processes. Generalization and model selection: cross-validation, regularization, and Bayesian methods. Unsupervised learning: clustering and dimensionality reduction. Learning control systems. Introduction to reinforcement learning.",""],"ENGRMAE 278":["ENGRMAE","Parameter and State Estimation","Bayesian and frequentist approaches to parameter and state estimation. Properties of estimators. Linear Gaussian systems and the Kalman Filter. Nonlinear state estimation, extended and unscented Kalman Filters. Introduction to Monte Carlo methods and particle filtering. Application to tracking and navigation.","ENGRMAE 200A and ENGRMAE 270A"],"ENGRMAE 279":["ENGRMAE","Special Topics in Mechanical Systems","Selected topics of current interest in mechanical systems. Topics include robotics, kinematics, control, dynamics, and geometric modeling.","ENGRMAE 270A and ENGRMAE 241"],"ENGRMAE 280":["ENGRMAE","Design of Computer-Controlled Robots","The basic aspects of mechatronic design are covered, including motor and sensor selection, control strategies, finite state machines, inertial measurement units, and implementation of advanced feedback control laws. Students work in groups to create their own mechatronic device. Materials fee.",""],"ENGRMAE 284":["ENGRMAE","Fundamentals of Experimental Design","Fundamentals and principles of statistical experimental design and analysis. Emphasis addresses understanding and use of designed experiments, response surfaces, linear regression modeling, process optimization, and development of links between empirical and theoretical models.",""],"ENGRMAE 285":["ENGRMAE","Engineering Design Under Uncertainty","Introduces students to statistical and ML methods used in engineering design under uncertainty. Students learn how to probabilistically formulate a design problem, translate the formulations into a computer, and systematically find the solution.",""],"ENGRMAE 286":["ENGRMAE","Design for Human Movement","Introduces techniques for analysis and modeling of human locomotion, with a focus on lower-limb rehabilitating and robotic assistive devices. Discusses background and current research, with assignments covering independent reading, computer simulations, and a final project.",""],"ENGRMAE 291":["ENGRMAE","Research Communication in Engineering","Guides students along research communication milestones by completion of a conference\/journal publication, research proposal, MS thesis, or other significant publication. Peer review, response to reviewers, and a presentation are used to build skill and confidence.",""],"ENGRMAE 294":["ENGRMAE","Master of Science Thesis Project","Tutorial in which masters-level students taking the comprehensive examination option undertake a masters-level research project.",""],"ENGRMAE 295":["ENGRMAE","Special Topics in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering","Special topics by individual faculty in major fields of interest.",""],"ENGRMAE 295P":["ENGRMAE","Special Topics in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering","Studies in selected areas of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"ENGRMAE 296":["ENGRMAE","Master of Science Thesis Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in the pursuit of preparing and completing the thesis required for the M.S. in Engineering.",""],"ENGRMAE 297":["ENGRMAE","Doctor of Philosophy Dissertation Research","Individual research or investigation conducted in the pursuit of preparing and completing the dissertation required for the Ph.D. in Engineering.",""],"ENGRMAE 298":["ENGRMAE","Seminars in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering","Presentation of advanced topics and reports of current research efforts in mechanical engineering. Required of all graduate students in mechanical engineering.",""],"ENGRMAE 299":["ENGRMAE","Individual Research","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"MED HUM 1":["MED HUM","Health, Wellness, and Conception of the Body","Asks what is health and who gets to have it? What is considered a \"healthy\" or \"sick\" body? We analyze historical and contemporary experiences of illness, medicine, and caregiving, including how patients represent their bodies and healing.",""],"MED HUM 3":["MED HUM","Art and Medicine     ","Analyzes the relationship between medicine and the visual arts from the late medieval to modern periods, covering topics such as anatomy, optical medical technologies, gender and race in medicine, and popular representations of disease and doctors.",""],"MED HUM 137":["MED HUM","Surviving Epidemics","Analyzes diverse social and cultural responses to epidemics from mid-nineteenth century to the present, including incarceration, caregiving, and disability rights. Using interdisciplinary materials and collaborative activities, students interpret strategies and outcomes of Indigenous, racialized, and marginalized communities surviving great illness.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MED HUM 195":["MED HUM","Capstone Seminar: The Clinical Moral Laboratory","Interdisciplinary exploration of the clinical encounter, and the importance of meaning making in these \"moral laboratories.\" Students enter the clinical space as participant observers, and reflect on how the clinical site informs and challenges reading practices.","MED HUM 1 or MED HUM 3 or GEN&SEX 60A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MED HUM 200":["MED HUM","Critical Perspectives in Medical Humanities","Analyzes social and cultural understandings of the body, health, illness, medicine, and disease. Themes include critical histories of the body; non-compliant subjects interacting with medicine; racial-sexual hierarchies of health; and theories and expressions of pain and suffering.",""],"M&MG 200A":["M&MG","Research in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Individual research supervised by a particular professor.",""],"M&MG 200B":["M&MG","Research in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Individual research supervised by a particular professor.","M&MG 200A"],"M&MG 200C":["M&MG","Research in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Individual research supervised by a particular professor.","M&MG 200B"],"M&MG 200R":["M&MG","Research in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics for First-Year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"M&MG 201A":["M&MG","Research topics in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Seminars presented by graduate students and faculty of the Department which explore research topics in specialized areas of microbiology and molecular genetics. Opportunity for students to gain experience in the organization, critical evaluation, and oral presentation of current research developments.",""],"M&MG 201B":["M&MG","Research topics in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Seminars presented by graduate students and faculty of the Department which explore research topics in specialized areas of microbiology and molecular genetics. Oppurtunity for students to gain experience in the organization, critical evaluation, and oral presentation of current research developments.","M&MG 201A"],"M&MG 201C":["M&MG","Research topics in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Seminars presented by graduate students and faculty of the Department which explore research topics in specialized areas of microbiology and molecular genetics. Oppurtunity for students to gain experience in the organization, critical evaluation, and oral presentation of current research developments.","M&MG 201B"],"M&MG 203A":["M&MG","Advanced Studies in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Organized within each laboratory group, one to four hours. Advanced study in areas related to faculty research interests. Involves small group study based on readings, discussions, and guest speakers. May be conducted as journal clubs.",""],"M&MG 203B":["M&MG","Advanced Studies in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Organized within each laboratory group, one to four hours. Advanced study in areas related to faculty research interests. Involves small group study based on readings, discussions, and guest speakers. May be conducted as journal clubs.","M&MG 203B"],"M&MG 203C":["M&MG","Advanced Studies in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Organized within each laboratory group, one to four hours. Advanced study in areas related to faculty research interests. Involves small group study based on readings, discussions, and guest speakers. May be conducted as journal clubs.","M&MG 203B"],"M&MG 205A":["M&MG","Basic Immunology Core Lectures","Basic concepts in human immunology including development of the immune system, innate immunity, immunoglobulin structure and genetics, antigen-antibody reactions, the major histocompatibility complex and antigen presentation, T cell and B cell development, initiation of the immune response, effector mechanisms.",""],"M&MG 205B":["M&MG","Basic Immunology Core Lectures","Basic concepts in human immunology incluing development of the immune system, innate immunity, immunoglobulin structure and genetics, antigen-antibody reactions, the major histocompatibility complex and antigen presentation, T cell and B cell development, initiation of the immune response, effector mechanisms.","M&MG 205A"],"M&MG 205C":["M&MG","Basic Immunology Core Lectures","Basic concepts in human immunology including development of the immune system, innate immunity, immunoglobulin structure and genetics, antigen-antibody reactions, the major histocompatibility complex and antigen presentation, T cell and B cell development, initiation of the immune response, effector mechanisms.","M&MG 205C"],"M&MG 206":["M&MG","Regulation of Gene Expression","Aspects of gene expression including the organization of the eukaryotic nucleus in terms of protein-nucleic acid interaction (i.e., chromatin and chromosome structure); the enzymology and regulation of RNA transcription and pre-mRNA processing in eukaryotes; mechanisms of RNAi and translation.",""],"M&MG 210A":["M&MG","Medical Microbiology","Biology of microbial pathogens (viruses, bacteria, fungi, parasites) as foundation for subsequent study of infectious diseases. Topics: molecular basis of microbial pathogenesis; clinical presentation and epidemiology; diagnostic testing; antimicrobial therapy; prevention strategies. Format: lectures, laboratory, clinical cases, liveclasstech interactive questions.",""],"M&MG 210B":["M&MG","Medical Immunology","Cellular and molecular basis of immune response and roles of the immune system in both maintaining health and contributing to disease.","M&MG 210A"],"M&MG 215B":["M&MG","Integrative Immunology II","Lectures and student presentations of primary literature. Focuses on advanced topics and cutting edge technologies in modern immunology.  Combination of didactic lectures and student-led journal article discussion.","PHYSIO 215. PHYSIO 215 with a grade of B+ or better"],"M&MG 216":["M&MG","Pathogenic Microbiology","Biochemical and genetic properties of infectious agents; identification and behavior of pathogens; activities of toxins; the chemotherapy, biochemistry, and genetics of drug resistance; and epidemiology of infectious diseases.",""],"M&MG 219":["M&MG","Medical Virology","Animal viruses as disease causing agents, including mechanisms of infection at both the cellular and organismic levels. Topics include comparative studies of different groups of viruses, viral transformation, and mechanisms of viral gene expression.",""],"M&MG 221":["M&MG","Immunopathogenic Mechanisms of Disease","Examination of the mechanisms underlying disease states mediated by immune dysregulation. Topics include mechanisms of immune evasion by cancer, diseases mediated by cytokine dysregulation, role of the microbiome of the GI tract and other disease sites, and adoptive T-cell therapy.","M&MG 215"],"M&MG 222":["M&MG","Molecular Pathogenesis of Microbial Infections","Features lectures by faculty on the molecular aspects of microbial pathogenesis, highlighting both microbe and cellular functions. In addition to lectures, students review papers and discuss them. There will be two written exams, one on viruses and one on microbes.",""],"M&MG 225":["M&MG","Molecular Mechanisms of Human Disease","Provides an overview of the molecular mechanisms of human diseases, including neurologic, hematologic, neoplastic, and infectious diseases. Students gain an understanding of these mechanisms, as well as models of human diseases.",""],"M&MG 227":["M&MG","Immunology Journal Club","Advanced topics in immunology as related to an understanding of human disease.",""],"M&MG 230":["M&MG","Topics in Stem Cells","One-hour seminar presentation by participating faculty or guest lecturer and open to the science community, followed by one-hour discussion of the lecture topic or related topic. Students are responsible for presentations and readings.",""],"M&MG 240":["M&MG","M","Explores a variety of topics that impact careers of medical scientists (M.D.\/Ph.D students). Topics range from scientific, such as recent advances in particular research areas, to ethical problems brought on by increased technology and intervention in the disease process.",""],"M&MG 250":["M&MG","Responsible Conduct of Research","Each session includes a formal presentation by faculty\/invited speaker followed by a discussion of case studies related to the topic under consideration.",""],"M&MG 270":["M&MG","Career Development","Topics include preparation of papers, grants and fellowships, scientific presentations, and curriculum vitae, and career opportunities.",""],"M&MG 280":["M&MG","Tutorial in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics","Tutorial in Microbiology and Molecular Genetics. Presented by the department chair; relates current laboratory research to the literature.",""],"M&MG 292A":["M&MG","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"M&MG 292B":["M&MG","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"M&MG 292C":["M&MG","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"M&MG 298":["M&MG","Independent Study","Provided for MSTP students to synthesize the basic science information learned during the basic science years of medical school and learn how to apply that knowledge toward graduate research directed at understanding the basis of human disease.",""],"M&MG 299":["M&MG","Dissertation--Microbiology and Molecular Genetics ","Course provided for Ph.D. students to prepare and complete the dissertation required for a Ph.D. degree.",""],"MOL BIO 200A":["MOL BIO","Research in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Individual research with Molecular Biology and Biochemistry faculty.",""],"MOL BIO 200B":["MOL BIO","Research in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Individual research with Molecular Biology and Biochemistry faculty.",""],"MOL BIO 200C":["MOL BIO","Research in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Individual research with Molecular Biology and Biochemistry faculty.",""],"MOL BIO 200R":["MOL BIO","Research in Developmental & Cell Biology for First-year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in the Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"MOL BIO 201A":["MOL BIO","Seminars in Molecular Biology & Biochemistry","Presentation of research from department laboratories or, when pertinent, of other recent developments.",""],"MOL BIO 201B":["MOL BIO","Seminars in Molecular Biology & Biochemistry","Presentation of research from department laboratories or, when pertinent, of other recent developments.",""],"MOL BIO 201C":["MOL BIO","Seminars in Molecular Biology & Biochemistry","Presentation of research from department laboratories or, when pertinent, of other recent developments.",""],"MOL BIO 202A":["MOL BIO","Tutorial in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Tutorials in the area of research of a particular professor which relate current research to the literature. May be conducted as journal clubs.",""],"MOL BIO 202B":["MOL BIO","Tutorial in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Tutorials in the area of research of a particular professor which relate current research to the literature.  May be conducted as journal clubs.",""],"MOL BIO 202C":["MOL BIO","Tutorial in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry","Tutorials in the area of research of a particular professor which relate current research to the literature. May be conducted as journal clubs.",""],"MOL BIO 203":["MOL BIO","Nucleic Acid Structure and Function","Structure and chemistry of nucleic acids. Relationship between these properties and the mechanisms of fundamental processes such as replication and repair, RNA-mediated catalysis, formation and regulation of higher order chromatin structure and recombination.","BIO SCI 98 and BIO SCI 99 and CHEM 51A and CHEM 51B and CHEM 51C"],"MOL BIO 204":["MOL BIO","Protein Structure and Function","The structure and properties of proteins, enzymes, and their kinetic properties.","BIO SCI 98 and BIO SCI 99 and CHEM 51C"],"MOL BIO 205":["MOL BIO","Molecular Virology","Primary research data on the major DNA and RNA viruses emphasizing strategies of regulation of gene expression. Utilization of viruses as molecular biological tools. Graduate-level knowledge of the biochemistry and molecular biology of macromolecules is required.","MOL BIO 203 and MOL BIO 204"],"MOL BIO 211":["MOL BIO","Structural Biology","Basic principles of magnetic resonance, Xray crystallography, and CryoEM toward the determination of high-resolution biomolecular structures.","MATH 2B"],"MOL BIO 213":["MOL BIO","Literature in Nucleic Acid Structure and Function","Exploration and critical analysis of recent primary scientific literature in structure, properties, and biological mechanisms involving nucleic acids.",""],"MOL BIO 214":["MOL BIO","Literature in Protein Structure and Function","Exploration and critical analysis of recent primary scientific literature in structure and properties of proteins, enzymes, and their kinetic properties.",""],"MOL BIO 215B":["MOL BIO","Integrative Immunology II","Lectures and student presentations of primary literature. Focuses on advanced topics and cutting edge technologies in modern immunology.  Combination of didactic lectures and student-led journal article discussion.","PHYSIO 215. PHYSIO 215 with a grade of B+ or better"],"MOL BIO 217A":["MOL BIO","Principles of Cancer Biology I","Oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes are studied from molecular viewpoints. Also studies their role in cancer; viral carcinogenesis. Designed for graduate students interested in cancer research. Format includes lectures and student-led discussions.","MOL BIO 203 and MOL BIO 204"],"MOL BIO 217B":["MOL BIO","Principles of Cancer Biology II","Topics include cancer cell growth and metastasis, chemical carcinogenesis, and cancer genetics and epidemiology. Designed for graduate students interested in cancer research. Format includes lectures and student-led discussions.","MOL BIO 203 and MOL BIO 204"],"MOL BIO 218":["MOL BIO","Clinical Cancer","Designed to acquaint students in basic life science with clinical cancer.",""],"MOL BIO 220":["MOL BIO","Structure & Synthesis of Biological Macromolecules Journal Club","Advanced topics in macromolecular struture and synthesis as related to biological problems.",""],"MOL BIO 221":["MOL BIO","Advanced Topics in Immunology","Literature-based, interactive discussions focused on review of seminal historic and recent immunology literature. Student responsibilities include reading, critical evaluation, and discussion of manuscripts.","M&MG 215"],"MOL BIO 221L":["MOL BIO","Advanced Immunology Laboratory","An advanced course in immunology for graduate students enrolled in the Biotechnology master's program. Emphasis is placed on learning modern techniques in immunology such as ELISAs, western blotting, immunofluorescent staining assays.",""],"MOL BIO 223":["MOL BIO","Introduction to Computational Biology","The use of theories and methods based on computer science, mathematics, and physics in molecular biology and biochemistry. Basics in biomolecular modeling. Analysis of sequence and structural data of biomolecules. Analysis of biomolecular functions.",""],"MOL BIO 227":["MOL BIO","Immunlology Journal Club","Advanced topics in immunology as related to an understanding of human disease.",""],"MOL BIO 229":["MOL BIO","Research-in-Progress Seminars","Two half-hour presentations by graduate students and postdoctorals to the department on their current research projects.",""],"MOL BIO 235":["MOL BIO","Literature in Chemical and Structural Biology","Exploration and critical analysis of recent primary scientific literature in chemical and structural biology.",""],"MOL BIO 243":["MOL BIO","Topics in Stem Cells","Presentation by participating faculty or guest lecturer that is open to the science community, followed by discussion of the lecture topic or a related topic. Students are responsible for presentations and readings.",""],"MOL BIO 244":["MOL BIO","Principles of Genomics","A survey course of the principal subfields of genomics and their applications to biological and health sciences that will cover genome assembly and annotation, genome structure, comparative genomics, population genomics, functional genomics, and medical genomics.",""],"MOL BIO 248":["MOL BIO","Metallobiochemistry ","A review of the biochemistry of metallic elements emphasizing: methods for studying metals in biological systems; the chemical basis for nature's exploitation of specific elements; structures of active sites; mechanisms; solid-state structures and devices; metals in medicine.","r corequisite: CHEM 131C or CHEM 132C"],"MOL BIO 250":["MOL BIO","Advanced Topics in Biotechnology - Nucleic Acids","Supplements laboratory curriculum with scientific background behind experimental methods. Format consists of lectures and the presentation and analysis of relevant papers from the scientific literature.",""],"MOL BIO 250L":["MOL BIO","Biotechnology Laboratory - Nucleic Acids","Nucleic acid techniques and recombinant DNA technology. Extraction and purification of nucleic acids, cloning and subcloning, PCR, site-directed mutagenesis, nucleic acid hybridization, additional associated procedures. Students must demonstrate accurate documentation of data (laboratory notebook) detailing experience and results.",""],"MOL BIO 251":["MOL BIO","Advanced Topics in Biotechnology - Protein Purification and Characterization","Supplements laboratory curriculum with scientific background behind experimental methods. Format consists of lectures and the presentation and analysis of relevant papers from the scientific literature.","MOL BIO 250L and MOL BIO 250"],"MOL BIO 251L":["MOL BIO","Biotechnology Laboratory - Protein Purification and Characterization","Major techniques of handling proteins and antibodies. Protein engineering, expression and large-scale purification of recombinant proteins from bacteria, HPLC, antibody purification, western blotting, additional associated procedures. Students must demonstrate accurate documentation of data (laboratory notebook) detailing experience and results.","MOL BIO 250L and MOL BIO 250"],"MOL BIO 252L":["MOL BIO","Biotechnology Management Laboratory","Overview of current methods in biotechnology, designed specifically for biotechnology graduate students. Organized into four distinct sections (nucleic acids, proteins, virology, and immunology). Students must demonstrate accurate documentation of data (laboratory notebooks) detailing experience and results.",""],"MOL BIO 253":["MOL BIO","Biotech Management   ","Taught jointly by Bio Sci and Merage School faculty, the course addresses fundamental aspects within, and associated with, the biotechnology industry. Curriculum is focused largely on management issues, including finance, product development, pharmaceuticals, project management, regulatory affairs, and ethics.",""],"MOL BIO 268":["MOL BIO","Seminar in Systems Microbiology Research","A research and journal club seminar that covers topics on bacteria and phage using approaches and principles from biology, engineering, and physics.",""],"MOL BIO 270":["MOL BIO","Science Communication Skills","Development of effective communication skills, oral and written presentations. Topics range from the art of creating keynote slides to strategically crafting a personal story, culminating in a live presentation to an invited audience.",""],"MOL BIO 291":["MOL BIO","Graduate School Fundamentals","Lectures and discussions providing basic skills needed for success in Ph.D. graduate studies. Topics include formulating a hypothesis, experimental design, literature review, grant writing, oral communication, biostatistics, time management, and professional development.",""],"MOL BIO 292A":["MOL BIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"MOL BIO 292B":["MOL BIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"MOL BIO 292C":["MOL BIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"MOL BIO 293A":["MOL BIO","Cancer Biology Journal Club","Focuses on molecular mechanisms that underlie the development and progression of cancers. Covers a variety of cancer-related research areas, such as cell cycle control, apoptosis, DNA repair, metastasis, angiogenesis, and others.",""],"MOL BIO 293B":["MOL BIO","Cancer Biology Journal Club","Focuses on molecular mechanisms that underlie the development and progression of cancers. Covers a variety of cancer-related research areas, such as cell cycle control, apoptosis, DNA repair, metastasis, angiogenesis, and others.",""],"MOL BIO 293C":["MOL BIO","Cancer Biology Journal Club","Focuses on molecular mechanisms that underlie the development and progression of cancers. Covers a variety of cancer-related research areas, such as cell cycle control, apoptosis, DNA repair, metastasis, angiogenesis, and others.",""],"MOL BIO 295":["MOL BIO","Biomedical Research Methods","Lectures and interactive discussions of research methods in modern biomedical science. Each week will focus on a different class of techniques, including molecular, biochemical, immunological, genomic, bioinformatics, microscopy, cancer biology, genome editing. One hour per week, grading based on attendance.",""],"MOL BIO 399":["MOL BIO","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"MUSIC 3":["MUSIC","Introduction to Music","Introduction to musical concepts and active listening skills. Students develop musical understanding through critical readings, selected repertoire, fundamental concepts related to rhythm, pitch, and genre.  Students apply those concepts to music from a wide range of historical and cultural origins.",""],"MUSIC 4":["MUSIC","Introduction to Opera","Introduces students with no musical background to the dramatic and performance conventions of opera, and suggests ways of developing a critical stance vis-a-vis the social, political, gender-related and moral conflicts that are presented by composers and librettists.",""],"MUSIC 5":["MUSIC","Popular Music in the United States","Examines the cultural, social, political, and economic dimensions of popular music in the United States over the last century and a half, with an emphasis on matters related to class, race, ethnicity, and gender.",""],"MUSIC 8":["MUSIC","The Beatles and the Sixties","Through a study of the music of the Beatles, students are introduced to selected broader historical and cultural themes (e.g., race and music, gender and music, music and the counterculture) while developing an understanding of the basic elements of music.",""],"MUSIC 9":["MUSIC","Rock: The Early Years","Surveys the social and cultural fabric of the post-World War II United States (from the late 1940s through the early 1970s) as seen through the prism of music - rock and roll music.",""],"MUSIC 10":["MUSIC","Piano for Majors","For Music majors with little or no piano experience. Provides the necessary background for realizing keyboard exercises required in the theory and harmony courses, and develops skills to play and sight-read simple music from different periods.",""],"MUSIC 15":["MUSIC","Musicianship","Interval and chord quality identification, melodic and harmonic dictation, tonal and chromatic sight-singing, and rhythmic reading and dictation.",""],"MUSIC 15B":["MUSIC","Musicianship II","Interval and chord quality identification, melodic and harmonic dictation, tonal and chromatic sight-singing, and rhythmic reading and dictation.","MUSIC 15A and MUSIC 16A. MUSIC 15A with a grade of C- or better. MUSIC 16A with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 15C":["MUSIC","Musicianship III","Interval and chord quality identification, melodic and harmonic dictation, tonal and chromatic sight-singing, and rhythmic reading and dictation.","MUSIC 15B and MUSIC 16B. MUSIC 15B with a grade of C- or better. MUSIC 16B with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 16A":["MUSIC","Music Theory","Review of music fundamentals. Triad and seventh chords, musical texture, chord spacing, embellishing tones, and introduction to diatonic harmony. Part-writing and model composition with tonic, dominant seventh, and subdominant harmonies.",""],"MUSIC 16B":["MUSIC","Music Theory","Introduction to phrase structure.  Part-writing and harmonization with predominants, linear dominants, 6\/4 embellishing chords, leading-tone and other diatonic seventh chords.  Advanced meters and rhythmic-metric dissonance. Diatonic sequence.  Introduction to tonicization and modulation through motion to V and III.","MUSIC 15A and MUSIC 16A. MUSIC 15A with a grade of C- or better. MUSIC 16A with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 16C":["MUSIC","Music Theory","Tonicization and modulation to closely related keys.  Simple binary and ternary forms.  Voice-leading reductions and simple forms.  Diatonic sequence with seventh chords.  Introduction to chromatic harmony I: modal exchange and mixture chords, the Neapolitan and augmented sixth chords.","MUSIC 15B and MUSIC 16B. MUSIC 15B with a grade of C- or better. MUSIC 16B with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 16D":["MUSIC","Theory\/Musicianship","Extended homophonic and contrapuntal formal designs (continuous variations, rondo form, sonata form, invention, fugue). Embellishing chromatic chords, dominant prolongation, modulations to foreign keys, extended harmonies, chromatic sequence, chromatic voice-leading and symmetrical divisions of the octave.","MUSIC 16C. MUSIC 16C with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 21A":["MUSIC","Keyboard Skills","Designed to develop the foundational skills of sight-reading, harmonization, transposition, improvisation, figured bass realization, and score reading.",""],"MUSIC 21B":["MUSIC","Keyboard Skills","Designed to develop the foundational skills of sight-reading, harmonization, transposition, improvisation, figured bass realization, and score reading.",""],"MUSIC 21C":["MUSIC","Keyboard Skills","Designed to develop the foundational skills of sight-reading, harmonization, transposition, improvisation, figured bass realization, and score reading.",""],"MUSIC 25":["MUSIC","Fundamentals of Music","Gain comprehensive insight into the fundamental concepts of music theory, including notation, harmony, and score analysis. Designed for students of all levels to improve their understanding of how music is composed, performed, and heard. Formerly MUSIC 25A.",""],"MUSIC 40B":["MUSIC","History of European Music: From the Renaissance through the Baroque","An introduction to the analysis of musical styles and forms, to the sources for constructing music history and reconstructing historical music, and to J.S. Bach.","MUSIC 16C. MUSIC 16C with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 40C":["MUSIC","History of European Music: Hasse to Mahler","An introduction to the analysis of musical styles and forms, and to the sources for constructing music history and reconstructing historical music, to Richard Wagner.","MUSIC 40B. MUSIC 40B with a grade of D or better. Recommended: MUSIC 16D"],"MUSIC 40D":["MUSIC","20th Century Music","Survey of principal composers, movements, and compositional techniques of Western art music of the modern era.","MUSIC 16C. MUSIC 16C with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 41":["MUSIC","Major Composer","Study of the works of an important composer with emphasis on their significance in historical and social contexts. Composers selected represent a wide variety of historical periods, nationalities, and stylistic orientations.",""],"MUSIC 42":["MUSIC","Music and Gender","Explores various intersections between music and gender. Examines ways in which gender and sexuality have played a vital role in the creation, dissemination, and consumption of music ranging from medieval Christian mysticism to contemporary hip-hop artists.",""],"MUSIC 44":["MUSIC","Classical Music in Society","Examines some ways in which classical music has played an integral role in aspects of society. Studies pieces from different cultural, political, and historical contexts in order to understand how musical meaning is created and interpreted.",""],"MUSIC 45":["MUSIC","History of Film Music","Course provides an overview of film music history. Special emphasis will be placed on developing an analytic vocabulary for musical elements and cultivating an understanding of how music can function within a film.",""],"MUSIC 46":["MUSIC","Music in Multimedia","Students explore intersections between music and other media forms through creating multimedia projects, readings, lectures, and discussion. Students produce music, edit video, increase media literacy, and study theories behind how music communicates meaning.",""],"MUSIC 47":["MUSIC","Introductory Topics in Music Technology","Introductory topics in electronic music, digital audio, and other aspects of music technology.",""],"MUSIC 48":["MUSIC","Introductory Topics in Music and Culture","Examines music and musical practices in different historical periods, societies, and cultural settings.",""],"MUSIC 51":["MUSIC","Music Technology and Computers","A study of the influence of technology on the musical culture and aesthetics from the 20th century to the present, with particular emphasis on the role of the computer. Work includes lectures, readings, listenings, discussions, demonstrations, writing, and experimentation.",""],"MUSIC 65":["MUSIC","Piano for Music Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 66":["MUSIC","Strings for Music Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 67":["MUSIC","Winds for Music Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 68":["MUSIC","Voice for Music Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 69":["MUSIC","Percussion for Music Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 70":["MUSIC","Guitar, Lute, and Other Plucked Instruments for Music Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 78":["MUSIC","History of Jazz","Development of jazz from African and African American folk origins through blues, early jazz, swing, bebop, \"cool\" jazz, fusion, free jazz, and contemporary trends.",""],"MUSIC H80":["MUSIC","Experiments in Music","Scientists explain the cognition of music using experimental methodology; artists expand the domain of music by trying previously unknown ways of making it. These two types of experiment deepen our understanding of music, from both scientific and artistic vantage points.",""],"MUSIC 82A":["MUSIC","MAHUR-Pish Radif: Introduction to Classical Persian Music","Survey of art music in Iran and basic structures of classical Persian music, with emphasis on MAHUR modal system and different instruments of classical Persian music. No musical experience required, but interest in vocal music is strongly recommended.",""],"MUSIC 82B":["MUSIC","HOMAYUN-Pish Radif: Introduction to Classical Persian Music","Survey of art music in Iran and basic structures of classical Persian music, with emphasis on HOMAYUN modal system and famous musicians and performers of classical Persian music. No musical experience required, but interest in vocal music is strongly recommended.",""],"MUSIC 82C":["MUSIC","SHUR-Pish Radif: Introduction to Classical Persian Music","Survey of art music in Iran and basic structures of classical Persian music, with emphasis on the SHUR modal system and different poetic rhythms in classical Persian music. No musical experience required, but interest in vocal music is strongly recommended.",""],"MUSIC 122A":["MUSIC","Piano Literature","Survey of stringed keyboard literature from the English Virginalists through twentieth-century composers.  Historical, formal, and stylistic considerations of music presented. Performances by class participants and occasional outside guests.","MUSIC 16A and MUSIC 16B and MUSIC 16C"],"MUSIC 122B":["MUSIC","Piano Literature","Survey of stringed keyboard literature from the English Virginalists through twentieth-century composers.  Historical, formal, and stylistic considerations of music presented. Performances by class participants and occasional outside guests.","MUSIC 16A and MUSIC 16B and MUSIC 16C"],"MUSIC 122C":["MUSIC","Piano Literature","Survey of stringed keyboard literature from the English Virginalists through twentieth-century composers.  Historical, formal, and stylistic considerations of music presented. Performances by class participants and occasional outside guests.","MUSIC 16A and MUSIC 16B and MUSIC 16C"],"MUSIC 126":["MUSIC","Piano Pedagogy","The materials and methods of piano instruction are examined and evaluated.",""],"MUSIC 131":["MUSIC","Post-Tonal Theory","Significant harmonic, rhythmic, and structural practices since 1900. Analysis and written work exploring free atonality and serialism; neo-tonal practices such as use of extended tertian harmonies, modalism, pandiatonicism, and non-tertian harmonies; structural principles such as aleatory, metric modulation and minimalism.","MUSIC 16D"],"MUSIC 132":["MUSIC","Jazz Theory","Study of jazz harmony and melody construction in improvisation.  Covered topics include terminology, chord symbols, notation, voicings, and scales as commonly used in jazz and popular  music.  Issues regarding tonality and ramifications of the blue scale are also examined.","MUSIC 16D"],"MUSIC 136":["MUSIC","Instrumentation","Ranges and capabilities of modern orchestral instruments. Exercise in writing for various combinations of wind, string, and percussion instruments and for full orchestra.","MUSIC 16C"],"MUSIC 140":["MUSIC","Topics in Medieval Music","Topics in medieval music.","MUSIC 40B. MUSIC 40B with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 141":["MUSIC","Topics in Renaissance Music","Topics in renaissance music.","MUSIC 40B. MUSIC 40B with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 142":["MUSIC","Topics in Baroque Music","Topics in Baroque music.","MUSIC 40B. MUSIC 40B with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 142W":["MUSIC","Topics in Baroque Music ","Topics in Baroque music.","MUSIC 40B. MUSIC 40B with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 143":["MUSIC","Topics in Classical Music","Topics in Classical music.","MUSIC 40C. MUSIC 40C with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 143W":["MUSIC","Topics in Classical Music","Topics in Classical music.","MUSIC 40C. MUSIC 40C with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 144":["MUSIC","Topics in Romantic Music","Topics in Romantic music.","MUSIC 40C. MUSIC 40C with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 144W":["MUSIC","Topics in Romantic Music","Topics in Romantic music.","MUSIC 40C. MUSIC 40C with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 145":["MUSIC","Topics in 20th Century Music","Topics in 20th century music.","MUSIC 40D. MUSIC 40D with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 145W":["MUSIC","Topics in 20th Century Music","Topics in 20th century music.","MUSIC 40D. MUSIC 40D with a grade of D or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"MUSIC 146":["MUSIC","Studies in Jazz Music","Topics in Jazz Music.",""],"MUSIC 147":["MUSIC","Studies in Music Technology","Specialized topics in electronic music, computer-aided music, and other aspects of music technology.",""],"MUSIC 148":["MUSIC","Studies in Ethnomusicology","Topics in Ethnomusicology.",""],"MUSIC 149":["MUSIC","Studies in Music History","Specialized topics in musical genres; culture and social issues; performance practices; and interrelated arts.","MUSIC 40B and MUSIC 40C and MUSIC 40D. Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement. "],"MUSIC 150":["MUSIC","Composition","Exercises and projects for diverse instrumental-vocal combinations; contemporary techniques and problems. Participation in the improvisation ensemble and working with electronic media.","MUSIC 16C"],"MUSIC 151":["MUSIC","Computer Music Composition","Exercises in the composition of music uniquely possible by computer, including digital signal processing, computer control of synthesizers and processors, and algorithmic composition. Demonstrations and musical analyses in class; considerable studio work outside class.","MUSIC 51"],"MUSIC 152":["MUSIC","Interactive Arts Programming","Study of artistic issues and programming techniques involved in the development of interactive computer art and music. Theoretical background, basic tenets of programming, and practical exercises in programming interactive computer multimedia art.","MUSIC 51 or ART 65A or DANCE 163"],"MUSIC 153":["MUSIC","Counterpoint","Studies in contrapuntal practices of various style periods such as the 16th, 18th, and 20th centuries.","MUSIC 16B. MUSIC 16B with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 155":["MUSIC","Analysis","Methods of formal analysis applicable to all Western musical styles: additive, continuous, transformational, and hierarchic forms; rhythm, texture, and sonority as form and process.","MUSIC 16D"],"MUSIC 156A":["MUSIC","Song Literature","A survey of song literature.  Designed as an overview of the song repertoire, German Lieder.",""],"MUSIC 156B":["MUSIC","Song Literature","A survey of song literature.  Designed as an overview of the song repertoire, French melodie.",""],"MUSIC 157":["MUSIC","Advanced Study in Composition","Individual weekly lessons in composition.","MUSIC 150. MUSIC 150 with a grade of C- or better"],"MUSIC 158A":["MUSIC","Diction","In-depth study of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), including its transcription and pronunciation, and its application for singers.  Introduction to IPA and Italian Diction.",""],"MUSIC 158B":["MUSIC","Diction","In-depth study of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), including its transcription and pronunciation, and its application for singers. German Diction.","MUSIC 158A"],"MUSIC 158C":["MUSIC","Diction","In-depth study of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), including its transcription and pronunciation, and its application for singers. French Diction.","MUSIC 158A and MUSIC 158B"],"MUSIC 159":["MUSIC","Vocal Pedagogy","Survey about the physical structure of the singing mechanism, science, and philosophy of studio instruction.",""],"MUSIC 160":["MUSIC","University Orchestra","Study and performance of standard orchestral repertory and works by contemporary composers.  Membership is open to all qualified students by audition only.","Audition required."],"MUSIC 161":["MUSIC","Wind Ensemble","Study and performance of works written for varying combinations of wind and percussion instruments.  Membership is open to all qualified students by audition only.","Audition required. "],"MUSIC 162":["MUSIC","University Chorus","Make-up of the ensembles varies and may include University Chorus, Chamber Choir, Madrigal Singers, Women's Chorus, and Reading Choir. Membership is open to all qualified students by audition only.","Audition required."],"MUSIC 162P":["MUSIC","University Chorus: Accompanying","Keyboard accompanying for one of the UCI choral organizations, with individual coaching in sight reading, score reading, and other accompanying skills.",""],"MUSIC 164":["MUSIC","Opera Workshop","Preparation and performance of operatic repertoire, including arias, scenes, and fully staged operas, and\/or stage training and role analysis.",""],"MUSIC 164P":["MUSIC","Opera Workshop: Accompanying","Training in techniques and operatic repertory for keyboard players.",""],"MUSIC 165":["MUSIC","Piano for Music Performance Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 166":["MUSIC","Strings for Music Performance Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 166P":["MUSIC","String Accompaniment","Chamber ensemble experience with the solo string repertory for keyboard, participation in the weekly string master class, performance in public recitals.",""],"MUSIC 167":["MUSIC","Winds for Music Performance Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 168":["MUSIC","Voice for Music Performance Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 169":["MUSIC","Percussion for Music Performance Majors","Private weekly lessons. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 170":["MUSIC","Guitar, Lute, and Other Plucked Instruments for Music Performance Majors","Private weekly lessons and a weekly master class\/workshop for the discussion of solo repertory and performance practice, including special topics such as historical notational systems, traditional American guitar styles, and demonstrations of period plucked instruments. Materials fee.",""],"MUSIC 171":["MUSIC","Chamber Singers","A select ensemble specializing in vocal chamber music from all periods.  Frequent performances on and off campus.  Membership is open to all singers by audition.",""],"MUSIC 176":["MUSIC","Chamber Ensembles   ","Make-up of the ensembles varies and may include various Classical ensembles, Latin Jazz Ensemble, Small Jazz Combos, Percussion Ensemble, and Guitar Ensemble.  Membership is open to all qualified students by audition only.",""],"MUSIC 178":["MUSIC","Jazz Orchestra","Rehearsal and performance of literature written for large jazz ensemble with emphasis on methods and materials.  Laboratory setting for new arrangers and\/or composers of modern jazz pieces.",""],"MUSIC 181":["MUSIC","Improvisation","Improvisation has been central to all music traditions. Course explores real-time music-making in a variety of non-notated contexts. Different improvisational styles are presented, including jazz, Asian improvisation, and experimental modern music. Emphasis on actual classroom performance.",""],"MUSIC 182":["MUSIC","Advanced Jazz Combo","Small-group jazz ensemble and improvisational workshop.  Range of music covered encompasses the full traditional jazz from improvised ragtime up through the most current avant-garde musical techniques.",""],"MUSIC 183A":["MUSIC","Jazz Composition I","Performance and lecture course for writing and performing original jazz compositions.  Emphasis is placed on composing as a way to create new improvisational frameworks. Cyclical forms, modal compositions, blues-oriented compositions, and ballad writing.","MUSIC 78 and MUSIC 132"],"MUSIC 183B":["MUSIC","Jazz Composition II","Performance and lecture course for writing and performing original jazz compositions.  Emphasis is placed on composing as a way to create new improvisational frameworks. Non-functional harmony, contemporary forms, free-bop, and current trends.","MUSIC 78 and MUSIC 132 and MUSIC 183A"],"MUSIC 183C":["MUSIC","Jazz Composition III","Performance and lecture course for writing and performing original jazz compositions.  Emphasis is placed on composing as a way to create new improvisational frameworks. Study of modern tonal-center compositions, intervallic compositions, and alternate rhythms.","MUSIC 78 and MUSIC 132 and MUSIC 183A and MUSIC 183B"],"MUSIC 189":["MUSIC","Accompanying for Plucked Strings: Continuo and Changes","Students apply theory to their instruments as they learn the basics of pre-1800 continuo playing and post-1900 jazz charts. Includes discussions of appropriate repertory, treatment of harmonic progressions, and finer points of style and technique.","MUSIC 16C"],"MUSIC 191":["MUSIC","Tutorial in Music","Supplemental instruction related to student's area of study. Taken only when the materials studied lie outside regular departmental offerings, and when the student has no formal chance to pursue the subject.","Undergraduate advisor approval required."],"MUSIC 193":["MUSIC","Conducting","Introduces students to the basic techniques employed in the practice of conducting and includes score study and development of leadership skills.","MUSIC 16D and MUSIC 40B and MUSIC 40C"],"MUSIC 195A":["MUSIC","Senior Thesis","With consultation in regularly scheduled meetings, students identify and study relevant texts and materials and prepare a prospectus for an original thesis.","Senior standing in the Honors Program in Music and Culture."],"MUSIC 195B":["MUSIC","Senior Thesis","Students submit an outline and preliminary drafts of section of their thesis to the instructor, on a schedule supervised by the instructor. The final version will address the instructor's comments and criticisms.","MUSIC 195A"],"MUSIC 197":["MUSIC","Word and Music","Performance class for advanced singers and pianists with emphasis on collaborative approach to vocal literature.",""],"MUSIC 199":["MUSIC","Independent Study","Student-devised research\/composition project, with faculty guidance, resulting in a formal paper\/project. Taken only when materials studied lie outside regular departmental offerings or when students have no formal chance to pursue the subject.","Undergraduate or graduate advisor approval required."],"MUSIC 200":["MUSIC","Bibliography and Research","Required of all entering students.  A systematic introduction to the bibliographical tools both in the general field of music and in the student's areas of specialization.",""],"MUSIC 201":["MUSIC","Topics in Analysis    ","Seminar focusing on different analytical methods, modal, tonal, and post-tonal, and their applications to repertories drawn from various historical periods through to the present day.","Placement into MUSIC 201."],"MUSIC 202":["MUSIC","Proseminar in Musicology","Introduces significant issues and recent developments in musicology and music criticism, including exposure to the controversies that have brought change and reflection to the discipline.","r corequisite: MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 203":["MUSIC","Music Thesis         ","Intensive work dedicated to researching and writing a Master's thesis under the supervision of a faculty advisor.","MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 204":["MUSIC","Proseminar in Music Theory and Analysis","Introduction to music theories, analytic approaches, and methodologies as applied to repertories drawn from Western art and popular music.","r corequisite: MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 209":["MUSIC","Seminar in Creative Practices","Core first-year seminar required for graduate students in the Integrated Composition, Improvisation, and Technology emphasis of the M.A. and Ph.D. programs. Composition and presentation of original student works, lecture, and discussion.",""],"MUSIC 210":["MUSIC","Choral Conducting   ","Intensive private instruction and study of the various choral literatures.",""],"MUSIC 211":["MUSIC","Performance           ","Contents vary according to the student's major instrument. Intensive private instruction and study of the various literatures.",""],"MUSIC 212":["MUSIC","Composition","Intensive work in composition geared to each student's level of competence.",""],"MUSIC 213":["MUSIC","Orchestral Conducting","Intensive private instruction in instrumental conducting.",""],"MUSIC 214":["MUSIC","Graduate Recital","Performance of public recital.",""],"MUSIC 215A":["MUSIC","Computer Music Composition and Production","Study of the composition and production of music made uniquely possible by the computer, including usage of prevalent digital music technology, techniques of digital signal processing, and computer control of synthesizers and audio processors.",""],"MUSIC 215B":["MUSIC","Computer Music Programming","Study of the artistic issues and programming techniques involved in the development of original applications for computer music composition and interactive performance.",""],"MUSIC 220":["MUSIC","Seminar in Music History","Topics in music history.",""],"MUSIC 222":["MUSIC","Seminar in Musicology ","Focuses on current scholarship in musicology and related fields with a strong critical content. Addresses topics relative to their historical and stylistic periods. Recent topics have included Stravinsky, Holy Women, Mahler, Historiography, Issues in Performance Practice, and Brahms's Chamber Music.","r corequisite: MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 224":["MUSIC","Seminar in Music Theory and Analysis","Typical topics include Schenkerian theory and analysis, contemporary form theory, and advanced techniques in the analysis of late 19th-century and contemporary music (e.g., transformational theory, Neo-Riemannian, and scale network theory).","r corequisite: MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 230":["MUSIC","Seminar in Contemporary Music","Special seminar projects dealing with contemporary music with emphasis on analytical techniques and style criticism.","r corequisite: MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 231":["MUSIC","Improvisation","Introduces the practice and history of improvisation in diverse fields of Western music since 1950. Performance projects and group critiques, weekly reading and listening assignments, participation in a class concert, and a research paper.",""],"MUSIC 235":["MUSIC","Critical Studies in Music","A critical examination of music traditions, institutions, and aesthetics, employing new scholarship in music and new critical studies in other disciplines.","r corequisite: MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 236":["MUSIC","Theoretical ICIT Seminar","Seminar studying new genres and topics that integrate composition, improvisation, new technologies, and non-classical cultures.",""],"MUSIC 237":["MUSIC","Practical ICIT Seminar","Study of new practices and techniques that integrate composition, improvisation, new technologies, and non-classical cultures.",""],"MUSIC 239":["MUSIC","Thesis Colloquium","ICIT students present their thesis work-in-progress for discussion and criticism. Faculty and visiting artists\/scholars also present their current work.",""],"MUSIC 240":["MUSIC","Graduate Projects    ","Substantial projects in performance, conducting, or composition (other than those specifically required for the degree), accompanied by a summary paper.",""],"MUSIC 242A":["MUSIC","First-Year Research and Writing Seminar I","Guided reading for one quarter on a broad subject selected by the instructor, followed by one quarter in which the student undertakes independent research on the selected topic, leading to a substantial term paper.","MUSIC 200. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 242B":["MUSIC","First-Year Research and Writing Seminar II","Guided reading for one quarter on a broad subject selected by the instructor, followed by one quarter in which the student undertakes independent research on the selected topic, leading to a substantial term paper.","MUSIC 200 and MUSIC 242A. MUSIC 200 with a grade of B or better. MUSIC 242A with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 243A":["MUSIC","Second-Year Research and Writing Tutorial I","In this two-quarter sequence, students gain expertise in a first area of research concentration by undertaking directed reading on a topic of their choice and then writing a paper of near-publishable length and quality on that topic.","MUSIC 242B. MUSIC 242B with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 243B":["MUSIC","Second-Year Research and Writing Tutorial II","In this two-quarter sequence, students gain expertise in a first area of research concentration by undertaking directed reading on a topic of their choice and then writing a paper of near-publishable length and quality on that topic.","MUSIC 243A. MUSIC 243A with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 244":["MUSIC","Readings for the Qualifying Examination","Directed reading in preparation for the Qualifying Examination.","MUSIC 243B. MUSIC 243B with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 245":["MUSIC","Prospectus Research","Research and writing of the Dissertation Prospectus.","MUSIC 244. MUSIC 244 with a grade of B or better"],"MUSIC 250":["MUSIC","Directed Research","Preparation for qualifying exams in ICIT or an individual research project, resulting in a substantial paper or comparable documentation of the research results.",""],"MUSIC 276":["MUSIC","Contemporary Ensemble","Chamber ensemble for the performance of contemporary music, including newly composed and improvised forms.",""],"MUSIC 290":["MUSIC","Dissertation Research","Research and writing of a Ph.D. dissertation.",""],"MUSIC 299":["MUSIC","Independent Study","Student-devised research\/composition project, with faculty guidance, resulting in a formal paper\/project. Taken only when materials studied lie outside regular departmental offerings or when students have no formal chance to pursue the subject.","Graduate advisor approval required."],"MUSIC 399":["MUSIC","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"NET SYS 201":["NET SYS","Computer and Communication Networks","Network architecture of the Internet, telephone networks, cable networks, and cell phone networks. Network performance models. Network performance models. Advanced concepts and implementations of flow and congestion control, addressing, internetworking, forwarding, routing, multiple access, streaming, and quality-of-service.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"NET SYS 202":["NET SYS","Networking Laboratory","A laboratory-based introduction to basic networking concepts such as addressing, sub-netting, bridging, ARP, and routing. Network simulation and design. Structured around weekly readings and laboratory assignments.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"NET SYS 210":["NET SYS","Advanced Networks","Design principles of networked systems, advanced routing and congestion control algorithms, network algorithms, network measurement, management, security, Internet economics, and emerging networks.","NET SYS 201 or COMPSCI 232 or EECS 248A"],"NET SYS 230":["NET SYS","Wireless and Mobile Networking","Introduction to wireless networking. The focus is on layers 2 and 3 of the OSI reference model, design, performance analysis, and protocols. Topics covered include: an introduction to wireless networking, digital cellular, next generation cellular, wireless LANs, and mobile IP.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"NET SYS 240":["NET SYS","Network and Distributed Systems Security","Modern computer and networks security: attacks and countermeasures, authentication, identification, data secrecy, data integrity, authorization, access control, computer viruses, network security. Group communication and multicast security techniques. Covers secure e-commerce and applications of public key methods, digital certificates, and credentials.","EECS 148 or COMPSCI 132"],"NET SYS 260":["NET SYS","Middleware for Networked and Distributed Systems","Discusses concepts, techniques, and issues in developing distributed systems middleware that provides high performance and Quality of Service for emerging applications. Also covers existing standards (e.g., CORBA, DCOM, Jini, Espeak) and their relative advantages and shortcomings.","An undergraduate-level course in operating systems and networks."],"NET SYS 270":["NET SYS","Topics in Networked Systems","Study of Networked concepts.",""],"NET SYS 295":["NET SYS","Networked Systems Seminar","Current research in networked systems. Includes talks by UCI faculty, visiting researchers, and Networked Systems graduate students.",""],"NEURBIO 200A":["NEURBIO","Research in Neurobiology and Behavior","Individual research with Neurobiology and Behavior faculty.",""],"NEURBIO 200B":["NEURBIO","Research in Neurobiology and Behavior","Individual research with Neurobiology and Behavior faculty.","NEURBIO 200A"],"NEURBIO 200C":["NEURBIO","Research in Neurobiology and Behavior","Individual research with Neurobiology and Behavior faculty.","NEURBIO 200B"],"NEURBIO 201A":["NEURBIO","Research in Neurobiology and Behavior","Individual research with Neurobiology and Behavior faculty.",""],"NEURBIO 201B":["NEURBIO","Research in Neurobiology and Behavior","Individual research with Neurobiology and Behavior faculty.","NEURBIO 201A"],"NEURBIO 201C":["NEURBIO","Research in Neurobiology and Behavior","Individual research with Neurobiology and Behavior faculty.","NEURBIO 201B"],"NEURBIO 202A":["NEURBIO","Foundations of Neuroscience","Intended to expose students to critical reading and analysis of the primary neuroscience literature. Instructors from departments associated with the Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program participate and discuss topics of current interest.",""],"NEURBIO 202B":["NEURBIO","Foundations of Neuroscience","Intended to expose students to critical reading and analysis of the primary neuroscience literature. Instructors from departments associated with the Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program participate and discuss topics of current interest.","NEURBIO 202A"],"NEURBIO 206":["NEURBIO","Molecular Neuroscience","Surveys molecular and cellular mechanisms involved in neuronal function, including control of gene expression, post-transcriptional and post-translational processing, RNA and protein targeting, cell death mechanisms, and molecular genetic basis of neurological disorders. Overview of the molecular aspects of developmental neurobiology.",""],"NEURBIO 207":["NEURBIO","Cellular Neuroscience","Neurophysiological and neurochemical mechanisms of electrical and chemical signaling in neurons. Topics include generation of resting- and action-potentials, voltage- and ligand-gated ion channels, second messenger systems, and synaptic transmission and integration.",""],"NEURBIO 207L":["NEURBIO","Cellular Neuroscience Laboratory","Intensive hands-on laboratory experience of contemporary techniques for studying ion channels and synaptic function. Experiments include microelectrode recording, patch clamp, quantal analysis of synaptic transmission, heterologous expression of genes for channels and receptors, brain slice, and fluorescence calcium imaging.",""],"NEURBIO 208":["NEURBIO","Systems Neuroscience","Study of the mammalian nervous system at the systems level. Anatomy and physiology of sensory, motor, and integrative functions.",""],"NEURBIO 209":["NEURBIO","Behavioral Neuroscience","Overview of fundamental conceptual and experimental issues in the neurobiology of learning and memory. The approach is a cross-level integration of research in molecular-genetic, cellular, circuit, systems, and behavioral analyses.",""],"NEURBIO 220":["NEURBIO","Neural Coding, Computation, and Dynamics","Theoretical principles and biological mechanisms underlying how brains acquire, assimilate, store, and retrieve information, compute adaptive responses to external inputs, and how knowledge is extracted from experience to generate an internal model of the world.","At least one upper-division course in the field of Neuroscience or one upper-division course in Cognitive Science or Machine Learning."],"NEURBIO 227":["NEURBIO","Bioinformatics and Systems Biology","Students learn the fundamentals of bioinformatics, genomic approaches, and Linux and R program in order to analyze RNA-sequencing data.",""],"NEURBIO 228":["NEURBIO","Psychophysiological Methods in Clinical Research ","Introduces the principal signals of psychophysiology and outlines how measures calculated from these signals can be applied in clinical research and practice.","One graduate or undergraduate course in statistics."],"NEURBIO 230":["NEURBIO","Epigenetics in Health and Disease ","Focuses on the role of chromatin\/nuclear structure organization (histone and DNA modification, chromatin remodeling, higher order chromatin structure and nuclear organization) on gene regulation, DNA replication and repair, relevant to development, metabolism, learning and memory, and human disease.","MOL BIO 203 or MOL BIO 204 or NEURBIO 206"],"NEURBIO 231":["NEURBIO","Clinical and Epidemiological Aspects of Neurodegenerative Diseases","Clinical and epidemiological aspects of neurodegenerative disorders causing dementia will be reviewed, including AD, PD, FTD, HD and cerebrovascular disease. Seminar format will include student presentations and group discussion.",""],"NEURBIO 232":["NEURBIO","Regenerative Neurobiology","Surveys the latest research on regenerative neurobiology. Both basic stem cell discoveries and their potential clinical application to brain disorders will be examined.",""],"NEURBIO 233":["NEURBIO","Neurobiology of Drug Addiction","Provides a comprehensive overview of topics in the addiction field, including drug pharmacology, models\/approaches to investigate addiction, brain circuits, genetics, epigenetics, and the cellular and molecular biology of drug addiction.",""],"NEURBIO 236":["NEURBIO","Cortex: Structure, Function, and Plasticity","Structured to include lectures and presentation of papers about cortex with emphasis on sensory-motor cortex. Both historical and current perspectives on cortical structure-function relationship will be critically evaluated.",""],"NEURBIO 237":["NEURBIO","Neurobiology of Brain Aging","Outlines some of the significant changes that occur in the aging brain, with a special emphasis on risk factors and protective strategies that promote successful brain aging. Topics include changes in synaptic plasticity, neurotrophic factors, and molecular mechanisms in aging.","NEURBIO 209"],"NEURBIO 239":["NEURBIO","Functional Imaging of the Nervous System","Overview of technical and applied aspects of imaging techniques available for studying the nervous system. The areas emphasized are cellular and subcellular imaging of neural function, systems-level imaging of brain function, and imaging of the human brain.",""],"NEURBIO 240":["NEURBIO","Advanced Analysis of Learning and Memory","Advanced analysis of contemporary research concerning the nature and neurobiological bases of learning and memory. Special emphasis is given to time-dependent processes involved in memory storage.",""],"NEURBIO 247":["NEURBIO","Programming for Neuroscience Research ","A neuroscience-specific introduction to programming and data analysis using either MATLAB or Scientific PYTHON. Students will learn general programming skills and effective use of programming for data management, statistical analysis, and image analysis.",""],"NEURBIO 248":["NEURBIO","Topics in Neurobiology and Behavior","Studies in selected areas of Neurobiology and Behavior. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"NEURBIO 249":["NEURBIO","Electronics for Biologists","Basic principles of electricity; properties and use of discrete components and integrated circuits; circuit analysis and design. Intended for advanced students in the life sciences.",""],"NEURBIO 254":["NEURBIO","Molecular Neurobiology","The application of genetic and recombinant DNA technology to neurobiology.  Topics include the study of neuronal proteins which play important roles in the formation of synapses and synaptic transmission.",""],"NEURBIO 255":["NEURBIO","Perspectives in Neuroscience: Past, Present, and Future","An overview of the conceptual and technical foundations of contemporary neuroscience from ancient times to the present. The subjects include synapses, neurons, brain organization, sensory, motor and regulatory systems, learning and memory, human brain function and dysfunction.",""],"NEURBIO 257":["NEURBIO","Statistics for Neurobiologists","Introduction to common methods for statistical analysis used in neurobiology. Topics covered include t-tests, ANOVAs, correlations and regressions, general linear model, power analysis, and non-parametric tests.",""],"NEURBIO 260":["NEURBIO","Auditory Neuroscience","Multidisciplinary overview of brain mechanisms of hearing. Emphasizes breadth of auditory function and research: single neurons to psychoacoustics, the chochlea to the cortex, and basic science to clinic.",""],"NEURBIO 290":["NEURBIO","Colloquium in Neurobiology and Behavior","Presentation of contemporary research problems in neurobiology and behavior and related areas by invited speakers.",""],"NEURBIO 292":["NEURBIO","Scientific Proposals for Neuroscience Trainees","Students learn how to effectively communicate scientific ideas and results. Activities include learning how to effectively write a scientific proposal, how to perform a coherent, persuasive slide presentation, and how to give meaningful, constructive review critiques.",""],"NEURBIO 399":["NEURBIO","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"NUR SCI 50":["NUR SCI","Nutrition Across the Lifespan","Focuses on the relationship between diet and health, and how the human body responds to different diets and food components. Emphasizes how diet interacts with activity and the impact of exercise or sedentary lifestyle on health.",""],"NUR SCI 90":["NUR SCI","Introduction to Pain Medicine","Gives students introductory knowledge in pain medicine.",""],"NUR SCI 92":["NUR SCI","Compassion in Health Care","An overview of the importance of compassion in health care, providing examples from a variety of health care professions through lectures and discussion.",""],"NUR SCI 101":["NUR SCI","Introduction to Nursing Informatics","Covers topics relevant to evidence-based practice; nursing informatics as a specialty; electronic health records and clinical informatics; clinical decision support and decision analysis; using informatics to promote community\/population health; telenursing and remote access telehealth; and ethical issues in nursing informatics.",""],"NUR SCI 108W":["NUR SCI","Frameworks for Professional Nursing Practice","Conceptual frameworks for professional practice. Scope of professional nursing, jurisprudence and ethics, professional interpersonal relationships, and health care delivery systems in the context of the social, political, and economic environments. Socialization of the student for professional roles in nursing.","BIO SCI D170 and PHRMSCI 120 and PHRMSCI 120L and BIO SCI M115. BIO SCI D170 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120L with a grade of C or better. BIO SCI M115 with a grade of C or better. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"NUR SCI 109A":["NUR SCI","Physical Assessment","Development of skills in communication, interviewing, functional and physical health assessment across the life-span, the art and science of human care, and clinical judgment. Provides in-depth introductory review\/synthesis of physical assessment skills and knowledge covering the life-span.","BIO SCI M115 and BIO SCI D170 and PHRMSCI 120 and PHRMSCI 120L. BIO SCI M115 with a grade of C or better. BIO SCI D170 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120L with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 109B":["NUR SCI","Nursing Skills","Provides an in-depth introductory review and synthesis of physical assessment skills covering the lifespan, application of the nursing process, nursing interventions, nursing evaluations, patient care management, and the development of critical thinking in nursing practice.","NUR SCI 109A and NUR SCI 108W and NUR SCI 119. NUR SCI 109A with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 108W with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 119 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 114A":["NUR SCI","Applied Pharmacology I","Presents principles of pharmacology applied to interventions in pathophysiologic states across the life span. Discussion of the major drug groups with implications for monitoring, drug administration, toxicity, and patient education are included.","BIO SCI E109 and BIO SCI D170"],"NUR SCI 114B":["NUR SCI","Applied Pharmacology II","Presents principles of pharmacology applied to interventions in pathophysiologic states across the life span. Discussion of the major drug groups with implications for monitoring, drug administration, toxicity, and patient education are included.","NUR SCI 114A and NUR SCI 118A and NUR SCI 110W and NUR SCI 112LA"],"NUR SCI 116":["NUR SCI","Human Growth and Development through the Lifespan","Examines theories and concepts of typical human development throughout the life cycle, from the time of conception through adulthood, and familiarizes students with the many forces that shape individual development, including family, society, and culture.","PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9. PSYCH 7A with a grade of C or better. PSCI 9 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 117":["NUR SCI","Applied Pharmacology","Presents principles of pharmacology applied to interventions in pathophysiologic states across the life span. Discussion of the major drug groups with implications for monitoring, drug administration, toxicity, and patient education are included.","NUR SCI 108W and NUR SCI 109A and NUR SCI 119. NUR SCI 108W with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 109A with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 119 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 118A":["NUR SCI","Human Health and Disease I","Presents content on pathologic alterations in physiologic processes in cells, tissues, organs, and systems across the life span. Emphasis on critical thinking, application of concepts to clinical practice, and related research.","BIO SCI E109 and BIO SCI D170"],"NUR SCI 118B":["NUR SCI","Human Health and Disease II","Presents content on pathologic alterations in physiologic processes in cells, tissues, organs, and systems across the life span. Emphasis on critical thinking, application of concepts to clinical practice, and related research.","NUR SCI 112LA and NUR SCI 114A and NUR SCI 118A and NUR SCI 110W"],"NUR SCI 119":["NUR SCI","Pathophysiology","Presents content on pathologic alterations in physiologic processes in cells, tissues, organs, and systems across the life span. Emphasis on critical thinking, application of concepts to clinical practice, and related research.","BIO SCI M115 and BIO SCI D170 and PHRMSCI 120 and PHRMSCI 120L. BIO SCI M115 with a grade of C or better. BIO SCI D170 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120 with a grade of C or better. PHRMSCI 120L with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 121A":["NUR SCI","Medical Surgical Nursing I","Introduction to medical surgical nursing application focused on the older adult population. Students assess, interpret, and provide priority nursing interventions with an emphasis the unique factors influencing nursing management of older adults.","NUR SCI 108W and NUR SCI 109A and NUR SCI 119. NUR SCI 108W with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 109A with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 119 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 121B":["NUR SCI","Medical Surgical Nursing II","Examines nursing assessment and advanced nursing management for acute and chronic health problems within the inpatient hospital setting. Emphasizes assessment, health history, diagnostic reasoning and nursing prioritization of care in medically complicated patients.","NUR SCI 109B and NUR SCI 117 and NUR SCI 121A. NUR SCI 109B with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 117 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 121A with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 125":["NUR SCI","Research Methods and Applications in Health Care","Foundational concepts of research in health care. Emphasizes critical evaluation and interpretation of research for application in practice.","STATS 7 or STATS 8 or SOCIOL 10A or SOC SCI 10A or PSYCH 10A. STATS 7 with a grade of C or better. STATS 8 with a grade of C or better. SOCIOL 10A with a grade of C or better. SOC SCI 10A with a grade of C or better. PSYCH 10A with a grade of C or better. Satisfactory completion of Lower-Division Writing requirement is recommended."],"NUR SCI 128":["NUR SCI","Human Behavior and Mental Health Care","Biopsychosocial and cultural influences on promotion and restoration of mental health in adults and adolescents. Assessment, classification, and care of clients with mental health problems and\/or substance abuse. Concurrent practicum in adult\/adolescent inpatient psychiatric units and outpatient mental health clinics.","NUR SCI 109B and NUR SCI 117 and NUR SCI 121A. NUR SCI 109B with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 117 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 121A with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 130":["NUR SCI","Maternity and Women's Health Care","Provides didactic and clinical experiences in nursing management of women's wellness across the lifespan, the childbirth process, and newborn care. Incorporates concepts of family-centered care, teamwork and collaboration, patient safety, quality improvement and informatics, utilizing an evidence-based practice approach.","NUR SCI 120 and NUR SCI 140 and NUR SCI 116. NUR SCI 120 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 140 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 116 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 132":["NUR SCI","Pediatrics: Care of Children and Families","Provides didactic and clinical experiences in nursing management of infants, children, and adolescents with acute, chronic and\/or life-threatening conditions. Incorporates concepts of family-centered care, teamwork and collaboration, patient safety, quality improvement and informatics, utilizing an evidence-based practice approach.","NUR SCI 120 and NUR SCI 140 and NUR SCI 116. NUR SCI 120 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 140 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 116 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 133":["NUR SCI","Complementary and Integrative Health ","Complementary and integrative healthcare emphasized a holistic, patient-focused approach to healthcare and wellness. Key research is critically evaluated and applications for improving patient care emphasized. Knowledge and skills are developed through lectures, guest speakers, and discussion.",""],"NUR SCI 150":["NUR SCI","Critical and Specialty Health Care","Delivery of patient-centered care for individuals with life-threatening alterations in health status utilizing technology and pharmacology for life support. Concurrent practicum in critical care units emphasizes collaboration, team work, and quality improvement in safe care delivery.","NUR SCI 130 and NUR SCI 132. NUR SCI 130 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 132 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 160":["NUR SCI","Leadership and Management in Health Care","Principles, concepts, and theories related to organizations, management, leadership, decision-making, and group process applied to the delivery of health care. The professional nurse using evidenced-based practice, collaboration, and informatics is incorporated in concurrent practicum emphasizing safe patient care delivery.","NUR SCI 130 and NUR SCI 132. NUR SCI 130 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 132 with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 170":["NUR SCI","Community-Based Health Care","Epidemiology, primary health care promotion, and disease prevention applied to nursing care of individuals, families, groups, and communities. Includes sociocultural, political, economic, and environmental influences. Concepts and methods of assessing populations and communities incorporated in concurrent practicum.","NUR SCI 150 and NUR SCI 160 and NUR SCI 179AW. NUR SCI 150 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 160 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 179AW with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 175L":["NUR SCI","Clinical Preceptorship","Independent study course focusing on critical thinking skills for nursing practice in selected clinical areas of interest to the student. The clinical experience focuses on core competencies: patient-centered care, evidence-based practice, quality improvement, safety, and informatics.","NUR SCI 150 and NUR SCI 160 and NUR SCI 179AW. NUR SCI 150 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 160 with a grade of C or better. NUR SCI 179AW with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 179AW":["NUR SCI","Scholarly Concentration I","Focuses on analysis and use of evidence to improve nursing practice. Emphasis is to develop critical analysis skills synthesizing a body of research evidence for clinical issues on a formal, collaborative written paper.","NUR SCI 130 and NUR SCI 132"],"NUR SCI 179B":["NUR SCI","Scholarly Concentration II","Continuation of evidence-based research and application for nursing practice. Emphasis is to develop a collaborative quality improvement project with clinical nurses applying the evidence to improve nursing practice.","NUR SCI 179AW. NUR SCI 179AW with a grade of C or better"],"NUR SCI 199":["NUR SCI","Independent Study in Nursing Science","Original research with Nursing Science faculty.",""],"NUR SCI 200":["NUR SCI","Research Methods and Evaluation for Evidence-Based Practice","Equips students with the essential knowledge and skills to understand, apply, and synthesize clinical research, relevant to nursing and health promotion.",""],"NUR SCI 201":["NUR SCI","Introduction to Nursing Informatics","Covers topics relevant to evidence-based practice, nursing informatics as a specialty, electronic health records and clinical informatics, clinical decision support and decision analysis, using informatics to promote community\/population health, telenursing and remote access telehealth, and ethical issues in nursing informatics.",""],"NUR SCI 202":["NUR SCI","Compassion, Communication, and Care of Underserved Populations","Addresses the root causes of health disparities experienced by underserved at-risk populations (e.g., the homeless, people of color, victims of violence) using a historical, sociocultural, behavioral, and personal lens.",""],"NUR SCI 208":["NUR SCI","Frameworks for Professional Nursing Practice","Focuses on the scope and standards of professional nursing practice. Topics address the professional, political, and economic contexts of nursing practice, with an emphasis on jurisprudence and ethics, professional interpersonal relationships, and nursing's role in the care delivery system.",""],"NUR SCI 209A":["NUR SCI","Physical Assessment","Focuses on the development of skills in therapeutic communication, interviewing, functional assessment across the lifespan, the art and science of human care, and clinical judgment.",""],"NUR SCI 209B":["NUR SCI","Nursing Skills","Focuses on the development of skills in therapeutic communication, interviewing, functional assessment across the lifespan, the art and science of human care, and clinical judgment.","NUR SCI 202 and NUR SCI 208 and NUR SCI 209A and NUR SCI 219. NUR SCI 202 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 208 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 209A with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 219 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 210":["NUR SCI","Advanced Pathophysiology","Principles of normal body functioning and pathophysiologic changes that occur as a result of compensatory mechanisms and disease. Physical and psychological aspects of altered health are explored from the cellular to the level of the total body system.",""],"NUR SCI 211":["NUR SCI","Ph","Students learn from interdisciplinary scientists about aspects of applied health-related research. Students are introduced to new paradigms, theories, approaches, and analytical methods in health-related research. Ph.D. Nursing Science students and Ph.D. students in other disciplines are encouraged.",""],"NUR SCI 212":["NUR SCI","Philosophy of Science for Nursing Scholarship","Development of philosophy of science in relation to nursing science, scholarship, and practice; emphasis on inquiry, scientific reasoning, and contemporary philosophical thought; historical and contemporary influences on nursing science theory development; evaluation\/analysis of interdisciplinary theory and application to nursing research.",""],"NUR SCI 213":["NUR SCI","Measurement of Health-Related Behavior","Provides a comprehensive understanding of psychometric principles, analyses, and emerging concepts like Intensive Longitudinal Methods to measure behavior in natural contexts using newer technologies (e.g., smartphones, wearable sensors, and Internet of Things). Students from different disciplines are encouraged.","Recommended: a graduate-level statistics course."],"NUR SCI 215":["NUR SCI","Health Promotion\/Disease Prevention","Covers the evidence-based national clinical preventive services guidelines for health promotion and disease prevention. Emphasizes counseling about personal health behaviors, screening tests for the early dtection of risk factors and disease, immunizations and chemo-prophylaxis.",""],"NUR SCI 216":["NUR SCI","Critical Thinking Through Writing Critique","Aims to stimulate critical thinking by using existing scientific literature to work out the structure of their arguments, evaluate their logical clarity, identify unquestioned assumptions, and link all this to the rigor\/appropriateness of any inferences made.",""],"NUR SCI 217":["NUR SCI","Applied Pharmacology","Principles of pharmacology applied to intervention in pathophysiologic states across the life span. Discussion of the major drug groups with implications for monitoring, drug administration, toxicity, and patient education included. Physical, psychological, social, and cultural factors affecting drug administration.","NUR SCI 202 and NUR SCI 208 and NUR SCI 209A and NUR SCI 219. NUR SCI 202 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 208 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 209A with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 219 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 219":["NUR SCI","Pathophysiology","Focuses on pathologic alterations in physiologic processes in cells, tissues, organs, and systems across the life span. Emphasis is placed on critical thinking, application of concepts to clinical practice, and related research.",""],"NUR SCI 220":["NUR SCI","The Ecology of Healthy Communities","Nursing science research contributions and opportunities as they pertain to the ecology of health in local, national, and global communities. Emphasis on methodological and ethical issues, research gaps, and clinical translational opportunities.",""],"NUR SCI 221A":["NUR SCI","Medical Surgical Nursing 1","Focuses on the introduction of medical surgical nursing application with a focus on the older adult population. Emphasis is placed on identifying and synthesizing the unique set of factors influencing nursing management of individual older adults.","NUR SCI 202 and NUR SCI 208 and NUR SCI 209A and NUR SCI 219. NUR SCI 202 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 208 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 209A with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 219 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 221B":["NUR SCI","Medical Surgical Nursing 2 ","Examines nursing assessment and advanced nursing management for acute and chronic health problems within the inpatient hospital setting. Theory content emphasizes assessment, health history, diagnostic reasoning, and nursing prioritization of care in medically complicated patients.","NUR SCI 209B and NUR SCI 217 and NUR SCI 221A. NUR SCI 209B with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 217 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 221A with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 222A":["NUR SCI","Seminar in Clinical Translational Science","Discussion of clinical translational science methods in the context of nursing science research. Emphasis placed on interdisciplinary and community participatory research approaches.","Consent of the instructor is required."],"NUR SCI 222B":["NUR SCI","Seminar in Clinical Translational Science","Discussion of clinical translational science methods in the context of nursing science research. Emphasis placed on interdisciplinary and community participatory research approaches.  Course may be offered online.","NUR SCI 222A"],"NUR SCI 223A":["NUR SCI","Biostatistics for Health Sciences I","Helps students to develop skills necessary for applying statistical principles and practices in health research. This is achieved through in-depth review of existing research articles and hands-on statistical programming exercises.",""],"NUR SCI 223B":["NUR SCI","Biostatistics for Health Sciences II","Introduces advanced methods of statistical analysis and research design used in health research. These include linear, logistic, Poisson regression, and a brief introduction to regression models for correlated data.","NUR SCI 223A"],"NUR SCI 224":["NUR SCI","Research Designs in Nursing Science","Provides an introduction to qualitative and quantitative research designs, methods, and analyses in nursing science. Evaluation of measurement and population issues, data management, ethics, analytical approaches, mixed methods work, and translational potential in the context of research.",""],"NUR SCI 225A":["NUR SCI","Advanced Pharmacology I","Principles of pharmacology that serve as a foundation for the pharmacotherapeutic management of patients evaluated and treated by advanced practice nurses.  Emphasis includes the application of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic principles.",""],"NUR SCI 225B":["NUR SCI","Advanced Pharmacology II","Principles of pharmacology that serve as a foundation for the pharmacotherapeutic management of patients evaluated and treated by advanced practice nurses.  Emphasis includes the application of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic principles.","NUR SCI 225A. NUR SCI 225A with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 226":["NUR SCI","Theoretical and Conceptual Frameworks","Explores the history, roles, and uses of theory in nursing and health scholarship. Students examine, analyze, and utilize the components of theory, theory construction, concept analysis, and theory evaluation.",""],"NUR SCI 227A":["NUR SCI","Grant Writing I","Introduction to the principles and methods of proposal writing used in preparing grant proposals. Provides content on the process for good proposal development, key elements and sections of proposal, necessary information to include in grant proposal and development of budget.","NUR SCI 212 and NUR SCI 226"],"NUR SCI 227B":["NUR SCI","Grant Writing II","Provides a continuation of skill building in preparing a grant proposal, with emphasis on developing the educational training plan, budget and budget justification, the IRB and ethics component, and letters of support for a career-development grant.","NUR SCI 227A. NUR SCI 227A with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 228":["NUR SCI","Human Behavior and Mental Health Care","Focuses on nursing management of individuals across the lifespan with alterations in mental health. Mental health promotion and crisis intervention, chemical dependency, acute and chronic care for psychiatric conditions, rehabilitation, and recovery are addressed.","NUR SCI 209B and NUR SCI 217 and NUR SCI 221A. NUR SCI 209B with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 217 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 221A with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 229":["NUR SCI","Pain: Symptoms, Science, and Treatment","Covers theory, assessment, experience, and management of pain.",""],"NUR SCI 230":["NUR SCI","Advanced Health and Physical Assessment","Application of theoretical concepts related to comprehensive health assessment of patients across the lifespan. Analysis, synthesis, and application of comprehensive health assessment data.",""],"NUR SCI 230L":["NUR SCI","Advanced Health and Physical Assessment Laboratory","Clinical laboratory course for the application of concepts related to comprehensive health assessment of patients across the lifespan.",""],"NUR SCI 231":["NUR SCI","DNP Prologue ","An onsite 2  1\/2 day immersive experience that provides an introduction to DNP scholarship and foundations essential for academic success in a doctoral program. Preparatory activities and onsite individual and group assignments are completed.",""],"NUR SCI 232":["NUR SCI","Leadership and Professional Collaboration in Healthcare","Explore and debate the relationship between various leadership and collaboration models, theories health care practice, and outcomes. Prepares DNP graduates to assume leadership roles across the healthcare spectrum.",""],"NUR SCI 233":["NUR SCI","Appraisal and Translation of Evidence for Practice ","Provides advanced concepts on research methods and measurement strategies that are applicable to support the advanced practice nurse to access, evaluate, and utilize data from various sources including research, quality improvement initiatives, and information technology origins to achieve improvements.","Consent of the instructor is required."],"NUR SCI 234":["NUR SCI","Health Politics and Policy","Participants analyze, apply, and evaluate current health policy-related literature, engage in the process of health policy development within professional, regulatory, or administrative environments, and develop an evidence-based health policy proposal across the spectrum of health care systems.",""],"NUR SCI 235":["NUR SCI","DNP Scholarly Project I: Conceptualization and Planning ","Students gain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to develop an evidence-based project plan and proposal. Structured didactic content and application of the Student's DNP Scholarly Project. First of four DNP Scholarly Project courses.",""],"NUR SCI 236":["NUR SCI","Social Determinants of Health and Health Equity ","The four components of the Clinical Prevention and Population Health Framework: evidence-based practice, clinical preventive service and health promotion, health systems and policy, and population health and community aspects of practice with emphasis on ethical care delivery.",""],"NUR SCI 237":["NUR SCI","DNP Intersession","Provides DNP students an opportunity to present and receive faculty and peer feedback on their DNP project plan. Recommendations related to practical data collection and information gathering approaches and data analysis are also emphasized.","NUR SCI 235. NUR SCI 235 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 238":["NUR SCI","Foundations of Health Systems and Health Economics","Foundational understanding of how healthcare is financed in the U.S. Explores economic theories and policies, various types of healthcare organizations, and healthcare delivery systems. Healthcare finance is discussed at national and practice levels.",""],"NUR SCI 239":["NUR SCI","The Science of Change, Quality Improvement, and Program Evaluation","Intro to science of quality improvement and program evaluation. Focus on info system technology and its application in quality improvement. Focus placed on the role of the advanced practice nurse leader in developing and leading clinical quality and safety initiatives.",""],"NUR SCI 240":["NUR SCI","DNP Scholarly Project II: Proposal","Developing a full proposal that reflects synthesis of the student's knowledge from prior coursework and work in an area of interest or expertise under the direction of a faculty mentor. Second of four DNP Scholarly Project course sequence.",""],"NUR SCI 241":["NUR SCI","DNP Scholarly Project III: Implementation and Evaluation","Continued development of knowledge, skills, and abilities to implement the chosen DNP proposal. Students receive direction from a faculty mentor and peer feedback as they become engaged in the microsystem where they are implementing their DNP Scholarly Project.",""],"NUR SCI 242":["NUR SCI","DNP Scholarly Project IV: Implications ","Selection and implementation of evidence-based interventions supported through informatics and technological advances and measurement of outcomes in a selected practicum site as applicable. Includes reflection and mapping of the DNP Scholarly Project with DNP Essentials as published.",""],"NUR SCI 243":["NUR SCI","DNP Epilogue","DNP students develop DNP competency through the presentation of their project and development of a professional manuscript. Individual direction from the DNP Project Team and peer feedback are provided throughout the course.",""],"NUR SCI 244":["NUR SCI","A Systems Approach to Health and Well-Being","Focuses on using a systems approach to promote individual and population wellness. The key topics include complex\/dynamic system, analytic tools to measure dynamic\/ interrelated processes, critical analysis of literature that utilizes the systems approach to promote holistic well-being.",""],"NUR SCI 245":["NUR SCI","Primary Care Adult\/Gerontology Acute Common Conditions ","Assessment and management of acute or episodic problems affecting patients and families across the lifespan. Diagnostics, pharmacology, pathophysiology, and therapeutics are integrated. Concepts of quality health care, resource management, and shared-decision making are emphasized.","NUR SCI 210 and NUR SCI 230. NUR SCI 210 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 230 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 246":["NUR SCI","Qualitative Research Designs in Nursing Science","Seminar in qualitative research philosophies, methods, and analysis in nursing science clinical research. Consideration of population access and sampling, ethics, data management, analytical approaches, and translational potential.",""],"NUR SCI 247":["NUR SCI","Quantitative Research Designs in Nursing Science","Seminar in experimental and survey research designs, methods, and analysis in nursing science clinical research. Consideration of measurement issues, mixed methods models, population access and sampling, data management, analytical approaches, and translational potential.","NUR SCI 212"],"NUR SCI 248":["NUR SCI","Curricular Design for the Health Professions","Introduces students to the theoretical foundations, essential components, and accreditation standards for curriculum development at the program level. Outcome competencies are addressed as they apply to the development and evaluation of an educational program to meet society's diverse healthcare needs.",""],"NUR SCI 249":["NUR SCI","Transformational Leadership in Education for the Health Professions","Students are introduced to the role of the nurse educator as change agent, leader, and scholar and are provided experience in planning learner-centered learning activities that are engaging and effective in achieving desired student performance.",""],"NUR SCI 250":["NUR SCI","Primary Care Women's Health","Primary health care needs of women including adolescent, adult, and aging adults.  Emphasizes assessment, diagnosis, prevention, management, and education of common gynecologic and family planning health care needs.","NUR SCI 210 and NUR SCI 230. NUR SCI 210 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 230 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 251":["NUR SCI","Nursing Informatics ","Provides an overview of nursing informatics topics for practice.",""],"NUR SCI 252":["NUR SCI","Applied Data Science for Clinical Research","Provides hands-on training in applied data science for clinical research.",""],"NUR SCI 255":["NUR SCI","Primary Care Obstetrics","Assessment and management of women during pregnancy. Diagnostics, pharmacology, pathophysiology and therapeutics are integrated. Includes assessment, differential diagnosis, management, patient\/family education, and counseling related to normal pregnancy care.","NUR SCI 210 NUR SCI 230. NUR SCI 210 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 230 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 260A":["NUR SCI","Primary Care Adult\/Gerontology Chronic Conditions ","Assessment and management of acute or episodic problems affecting adult and geriatric patients and their families. Diagnostics, pharmacology, pathophysiology, and therapeutic are integrated.","NUR SCI 245. NUR SCI 245 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 261":["NUR SCI","Advanced Qualitative and Mixed Methods Research Design","Discussion and application course on design and implementation of qualitative, mixed methods research. Emphasis on data analysis and management skills, interpretation of findings, reflexivity and ethical considerations in field work, and the development of.","Enrollment in a UCI Ph.D. program and at least one introduction qualitative course."],"NUR SCI 262":["NUR SCI","Foundations of Professional Nursing Practice","Focuses on the development of skills in therapeutic communication, interviewing, functional assessment across the lifespan, the art and science of human care, and clinical judgment. Faculty-facilitated, participatory peer group, and self-learning laboratory activities are included.",""],"NUR SCI 264A":["NUR SCI","Applied Pharmacology I","Principles of pharmacology applied to intervention in pathophysiologic states across the life span. Discussion of the major drug groups with implications for monitoring, drug administration, toxicity, and patient education included. Physical, psychological, social, and cultural factors affecting drug administration.",""],"NUR SCI 264B":["NUR SCI","Applied Pharmacology II","Principles of pharmacology applied to intervention in pathophysiologic states across the life span. Discussion of the major drug groups with implications for monitoring, drug administration, toxicity, and patient education included. Physical, psychological, social, and cultural factors affecting drug administration.",""],"NUR SCI 268A":["NUR SCI","Pathophysiology I    ","Focuses on pathologic alterations in physiologic processes in cells, tissues, organs, and systems across the life span. Content includes disease processes, linkage of relevant physiology to disease states, and factors that influence epidemiology and pathophysiology.",""],"NUR SCI 268B":["NUR SCI","Pathophysiology II   ","Focuses on pathologic alterations in physiologic processes in cells, tissues, organs, and systems across the life span. Content includes disease processes, linkage of relevant physiology to disease states, and factors that influence epidemiology and pathophysiology.","NUR SCI 268A"],"NUR SCI 270":["NUR SCI","Primary Care Pediatrics","Assessment and management of acute or episodic problems affecting pediatric patients and their families. Diagnostics, pharmacology, pathophysiology, and therapeutics are integrated.","NUR SCI 210 and NUR SCI 230. NUR SCI 210 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 230 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 271":["NUR SCI","Community-Based Health Care ","Epidemiology, primary health care promotion, and disease prevention applied to nursing care of individuals, families, groups, and communities. Includes sociocultural, political, economic, and environmental influences. Concepts and methods of assessing populations and communities incorporated in concurrent practicum.","NUR SCI 215 and NUR SCI 274 and NUR SCI 276"],"NUR SCI 272":["NUR SCI","Pediatrics: Care of Children and Families","Provides didactic and clinical experiences in nursing management of infants, children, and adolescents with acute, chronic, and\/or life-threatening conditions. Incorporates concepts of family-centered care, teamwork and collaboration, patient safety, quality improvement and informatics, utilizing an evidence-based practice approach.","NUR SCI 266 and NUR SCI 267"],"NUR SCI 273":["NUR SCI","Maternity and Women's Health Care","Provides didactic and clinical experiences in nursing management of women's wellness across the lifespan, the childbirth process, and newborn care. Incorporates concepts of family-centered care, teamwork and collaboration, patient safety, quality improvement and informatics, utilizing an evidence-based practice approach.","NUR SCI 266 and NUR SCI 267"],"NUR SCI 274":["NUR SCI","Critical and Specialty Health Care","Focuses on the restorative, supportive care of individuals with life-threatening alterations in health status utilizing technology and pharmacology for life support. The course includes pathophysiology, diagnostics, monitoring, pharmacology, therapeutics, and evidence-based management interventions will be integrated.","NUR SCI 272 and NUR SCI 273"],"NUR SCI 275":["NUR SCI","Clinical Preceptorship","Independent study course focusing on in-depth clinical nursing practice in a selected clinical area of interest to the graduate student. Students are mentored by a preceptor who is an expert clinician in the area.","NUR SCI 215 and NUR SCI 274 and NUR SCI 276"],"NUR SCI 276":["NUR SCI","Leadership and Management in Health Care","Explores the professional nurse as leader and manager of a health care team. Principles and theories related to organizations, leadership, decision-making, and group process are applied to the delivery of health care at the individual and population levels.","NUR SCI 272 and NUR SCI 273"],"NUR SCI 277":["NUR SCI","Implementation Science","Focuses on dissemination and implementation (D&I) science. Emphasizes the types of questions D&I research seeks to answer, commonly used models and frameworks, methods employed, and outcomes examined.",""],"NUR SCI 279A":["NUR SCI","Frameworks for the Advanced Practice Registered Nursing Role: Nurse Practitioner ","Orientation to the scope and standards of advanced practice registered nursing pertinent to the APRN role. Principles of jurisprudence, ethics, and advocacy will be introduced along with conceptual frameworks for advanced nursing practice.",""],"NUR SCI 281":["NUR SCI","Professional Issues in Nursing ","Provides an orientation to the scope and standards of professional nursing practice for master's students. The social, political, and economic environments affecting health care delivery systems and the ethics of professional nursing practice are analyzed.",""],"NUR SCI 282":["NUR SCI","Compassionate Care with Underserved Populations","Addresses theory\/research on health risk factors (e.g., psychiatric illness, sociocultural and economic characteristics) that impact patient health and well-being across the lifespan. Emphasis is on cultural awareness, lifestyle modification, community resources, and communication\/coping strategies to promote well-being.",""],"NUR SCI 283":["NUR SCI","Primary Care Procedures","Introduces the theoretical basis for common procedures performed in primary care clinical practice. Focus includes EKG interpretation, x-ray interpretation, minor surgery, and orthopaedic procedures.","NUR SCI 245. NUR SCI 245 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 284":["NUR SCI","Scholarly Concentration","Independent study focusing on critique, analysis, and synthesis of research evidence as a basis for graduate practice nursing in an area of interest to the student.","NUR SCI 200"],"NUR SCI 285":["NUR SCI","DNP APRN Practicum I","Clinical application of theory and research related to the advanced assessment and health promotion of patients across the lifespan.","NUR SCI 210 and NUR SCI 230 and (NUR SCI 230L or NUR SCI 231L). NUR SCI 210 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 230 with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 230L with a grade of B or better. NUR SCI 231L with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 286":["NUR SCI","DNP APRN Practicum II","Clinical field study applying theory, research, and developing clinical skills related to the provision of care to patients and their families in increasingly complex clinical situations.","NUR SCI 285. NUR SCI 285 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 287":["NUR SCI","DNP APRN Practicum III","Clinical application of theory and research through clinical experiences in selected primary care settings designed to provide students with competencies in the assessment, diagnosis, management, and education\/counseling in selected populations.","NUR SCI 286. NUR SCI 286 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 288":["NUR SCI","DNP APRN Practicum IV","Continued clinical application of theory and research through clinical experiences in selected primary care settings designed to provide students with competencies in the assessment, diagnosis, management, and education\/counseling in selected populations.","NUR SCI 287. NUR SCI 287 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 289":["NUR SCI","DNP APRN Practicum V","Culminating clinical experience serves as a transition from the student role to that of the advanced practice nurse.","NUR SCI 288. NUR SCI 288 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 290":["NUR SCI","DNP APRN Practicum VI ","Through continued clinical experience, students demonstrate increased responsibility and accountability for performance as an advanced practice nurse and clinical scholar, synthesizing knowledge of pathophysiology and disease management, evidence-based guidelines, anticipatory guidance, models of provider-patient communication, and provision of educational resources.","NUR SCI 289. NUR SCI 289 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 291":["NUR SCI","DNP Practicum I","Implementation and evaluation of an evidence-based, DNP project in an area of advanced practice in partnership with a selected agency or organization that solves a practice problem or improves population health, educational, or performance outcomes.",""],"NUR SCI 292":["NUR SCI","DNP Practicum II","Implementation and evaluation of an evidence-based, DNP project in an area of advanced practice in partnership with a selected agency or organization that solves a practice problem or improves population health, educational, or performance outcomes.","NUR SCI 291. NUR SCI 291 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 293":["NUR SCI","DNP Practicum III","Implementation and evaluation of an evidence-based, DNP project in an area of advanced practice in partnership with a selected agency or organization that solves a practice problem or improves population health, educational, or performance outcomes.","NUR SCI 292. NUR SCI 292 with a grade of B or better"],"NUR SCI 294":["NUR SCI","Directed Study in Vulnerable Populations","Independent study that focuses on individually designed clinical learning experiences and goals within a selected vulnerable population, such as the homeless, veterans, minority groups, etc. Students work in a clinical setting addressing health care needs of the vulnerable population(s).",""],"NUR SCI 296":["NUR SCI","Doctoral Dissertation Reading and Writing","Dissertation research with Nursing Sciences faculty.","Advancement to candidacy."],"NUR SCI 298":["NUR SCI","Directed Studies in Nursing Science","Directed study with Nursing Science faculty.",""],"NUR SCI 299":["NUR SCI","Independent Study in Nursing Science","Independent research with Nursing Science faculty.",""],"NUR SCI 399":["NUR SCI","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"PATH 200A":["PATH","Research in Experimental Pathology","Independent research for the Ph.D. program within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in Experimental Pathology.",""],"PATH 200B":["PATH","Research in Experimental Pathology","Independent research for the Ph.D. program within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in Experimental Pathology.",""],"PATH 200C":["PATH","Research in Experimental Pathology","Independent research for the Ph.D. program within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in Experimental Pathology.",""],"PATH 200R":["PATH","Research in Experimental Pathology for First-Year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in Experimental Pathology for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"PATH 203A":["PATH","Advanced Studies in Experimental Pathology","A tutorial course for Ph.D. students in Experimental Pathology entailing attendance at Departmental seminars and critical reading of the scientific literature.",""],"PATH 203B":["PATH","Advanced Studies in Experimental Pathology","A tutorial course for Ph.D. students in Experimental Pathology entailing attendance at Departmental seminars and critical reading of the scientific literature.",""],"PATH 203C":["PATH","Advanced Studies in Experimental Pathology","A tutorial course for Ph.D. students in Experimental Pathology entailing attendance at Departmental seminars and critical reading of the scientific literature.",""],"PATH 204A":["PATH","Experimental Pathology Research Seminar","Seminar series for graduate students in Experimental Pathology. Students attend seminars and, beginning in their third year of graduate study, present one formal seminar on their graduate research.",""],"PATH 204B":["PATH","Experimental Pathology Research Seminar","Seminar series for graduate students in Experimental Pathology. Students attend seminars and, beginning in their third year of graduate study, present one formal seminar on their graduate research.",""],"PATH 204C":["PATH","Experimental Pathology Research Seminar","Seminar series for graduate students in Experimental Pathology. Students attend seminars and, beginning in their third year of graduate study, present one formal seminar on their graduate research.",""],"PATH 221":["PATH","Immunopathogenic Mechanisms of Disease","Examination of the mechanisms underlying disease states mediated by immune dysregulation. Topics include mechanisms of immune evasion by cancer, diseases mediated by cytokine dysregulation, role of the microbiome of the GI tract and other disease sites, and adoptive T-cell therapy.","MMG 215"],"PATH 225":["PATH","Molecular Mechanisms of Human Disease","Provides an overview of the molecular mechanisms of human diseases, including neurologic, hematologic, neoplastic, and infectious diseases. Students gain an understanding of these mechanisms, as well as models of human diseases.",""],"PATH 227":["PATH","Experimental Pathology Journal Club","Graduate-level course, which is open to all years, will involve the reading and discussion of papers, preferably written by the invited seminar speaker. Discussions will cover advanced topics in experimental pathology as related to an understanding of human disease.",""],"PATH 240":["PATH","Neuropathology","Covers genetic and molecular mechanisms of neurological diseases. A grounding in neuroanatomy and prior or simultaneous enrollment in Anatomy 210A or the equivalent is strongly recommended. Resident physicians and clinical fellows can audit the course.",""],"PATH 292A":["PATH","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"PATH 292B":["PATH","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"PATH 292C":["PATH","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"PATH 299":["PATH","Dissertation in Experimental Pathology","Provided for the preparation and completion of the dissertation required for the Ph.D. degree.",""],"PED GEN 200A":["PED GEN","Introduction to Medical Genetics and Cytogenetics","Covers current concepts regarding mitosis, meiosis, the cell cycle, and chromosome ultrastructure and function. Clinical disorders caused by chromosomal aneuploidy, duplication, and deletion, and principles of Mendelian, chromosomal, and multifactorial and nontraditional inheritance are presented and illustrated.",""],"PED GEN 200B":["PED GEN","Genetic Screening, Prenatal Development, and Human Teratology","Principles and techniques of prenatal, neonatal, and carrier screening. Infertility, pregnancy, and delivery. Normal and abnormal prenatal growth and development. Reproductive and fetal effects of drugs, radiation, infections, and other environmental factors.","PED GEN 200A"],"PED GEN 200C":["PED GEN","Human Genetic Disorders","Inheritance, diagnosis, natural history, management, and counseling considerations for commonly encountered genetic diseases, birth defects, and dysmorphic syndromes.","PED GEN 200B"],"PED GEN 200D":["PED GEN","Disorders due to Inborn Errors of Metabolism","Aspects of biochemistry and metabolism are reviewed with special emphasis on genetic abnormalities which lead to inborn errors of metabolism. Diagnostic procedures, heterozygote detection, treatment, counseling issues, and prenatal diagnosis are reviewed.","PED GEN 200A"],"PED GEN 200E":["PED GEN","Molecular Genetics, Gene Mapping, and Genetic Linkage","Derivation of different types of DNA probes and DNA libraries, restriction endonuclease polymorphisms, assignment of genes to chromosomes, and genetic linkage.  Emphasis on the use of recombinant DNA technologies and genetic analysis for diagnosis of human genetic disease.","PED GEN 200A and PED GEN 200D"],"PED GEN 200F":["PED GEN","Quantitative Genetics","Quantitative aspects of human genetics, including population studies, segregation analysis, linkage, mapping, and genetic risk determination.","r corequisite: PED GEN 200A"],"PED GEN 200G":["PED GEN","Hereditary Cancer Counseling","Issues in genetic counseling for cancer. Cancer biology; genetic mechanisms and environmental influences in carcinogenesis; tumor pathology; cancer gene mapping; epidemiology. Features natural history, diagnosis, prevention, surveillance, and management of heredity cancers. Psychosocial, ethical, legal aspects of cancer risk assessment.","PED GEN 200B"],"PED GEN 200H":["PED GEN","Genetic Counselin Research Design","Quantitative and qualitative methods for genetic counseling research. Reference management; statistics: sample size, power, and data analysis; reliability and validity; surveys, questionnaires, interviews, focus groups; quality of life and genetic epidemiology research; designing a research protocol; IRB issues; grant writing.",""],"PED GEN 200L":["PED GEN","Cytogenetics Laboratory","Practicum introducing methods of specimen collection, short-term lymphocyte and bone marrow culture, long-term fibroblast and amniocyte culture, harvesting and slide preparation, chromosome staining, microphotography, and darkroom techniques. Microscopic chromosome analysis, photographic karyotyping, and appropriate use of cytogenetic nomenclature are emphasized.",""],"PED GEN 201A":["PED GEN","Introduction to Genetic Counseling","Through directed readings, observing patient evaluations, role-playing, and conducting intake interviews, students are introduced to the process of diagnosis, management, and counseling for genetic disease. Psychosocial issues, interviewing techniques, pedigree construction, clinical photography, and various other skills are addressed.",""],"PED GEN 201B":["PED GEN","Clinical Rotation I","Provides extensive supervised experience in history taking, interviewing, and psychosocial assessment in the clinical genetics setting. Students independently perform telephone, office, and home-visit intake interviews, participate in counseling, and present cases at patient management conferences.",""],"PED GEN 201C":["PED GEN","Clinical Rotation II","Provides further supervised experience in genetic counseling, case management, clinic administration and organization, and the use of community resources. Emphasis is on sharpening counseling skills and on developing a professional identity and code of ethics.",""],"PED GEN 201D":["PED GEN","Prenatal Diagnosis Counseling","A practicum with extensive supervised experience in prenatal diagnosis counseling which provides the student with the opportunity to conduct genetic counseling sessions semi-independently and to further develop clinical skills.","PED GEN 200A and PED GEN 200B and PED GEN 200C"],"PED GEN 202A":["PED GEN","Counseling in Human Genetics: Theory and Methods","Theoretical approaches, counseling models and methods, and bio-psychosocial assessment strategies are examined in the context of genetic counseling. Contract-setting, working alliance, the use of self and evaluation methods. Beginning counseling and peer supervision skills are practiced in class.",""],"PED GEN 202B":["PED GEN","Community Resources","Lectures, guest speakers, and community visits acquaint genetic counselors with public and private health care and funding agencies, parent support and advocacy groups, and other resources to assist individuals and families confronted with genetic disorders, developmental disabilities, and birth defects.",""],"PED GEN 202C":["PED GEN","Ethical Issues in Human Genetics","Explores major social, legal, and ethical issues in genetic counseling including those arising in genetic screening, prenatal diagnosis, informed consent, privacy and confidentiality, rights of the disabled, new genetic and reproductive technologies, treatment, and access to services.",""],"PED GEN 203A":["PED GEN","Counseling in Human Genetics: Putting Thought to Practice","Builds upon the skills learned in previous courses emphasizing advanced counseling methods such as listening, empathy, and collaboration. The counselor's own self-awareness, ethical behaviors, and limits are explored. Individual, team, and group exercises are performed.","PED GEN 202A"],"PED GEN 204A":["PED GEN","Professional Skills Development","Hones and augments existing competencies in genetic counseling through ongoing clinical experiences. Develops skills using computers for genetics applications, provision of community and professional education, and clinic administration. Further experience in genetics laboratories or specialty clinics may be elected.",""],"PED GEN 204B":["PED GEN","Professional Skills Development","Hones and augments existing competencies in genetic counseling through ongoing clinical experiences. Develops skills using computers for genetics applications, provision of community and professional education, and clinic administration. Further experience in genetics laboratories or specialty clinics may be elected.","PED GEN 204A"],"PED GEN 204C":["PED GEN","Professional Skills Development","Hones and augments existing competencies in genetic counseling through ongoing clinical experiences. Develops skills using computers for genetics applications, provision of community and professional education, and clinic administration. Further experience in genetics laboratories or specialty clinics may be elected.","PED GEN 204B"],"PED GEN 295":["PED GEN","Master's Thesis and Research Writing","Under the supervision of one or more faculty members, the student designs and conducts a research project or completes a case report. A problem in the cytogenetics, biochemical, clinical, psychosocial, or behavioral areas of medical genetics may be investigated.",""],"PERSIAN 1A":["PERSIAN","Fundamentals in Persian"," Designed for students with little or no exposure to Persian. Students learn the modern writing system and grammar of Persian. Facilitates basic reading, writing, and speaking skills and fosters college-level literacy in Persian culture.","Placement into PERSIAN 1A."],"PERSIAN 1B":["PERSIAN","Fundamentals in Persian"," Designed for students with little or no exposure to Persian. Students learn the modern writing system and grammar of Persian. Facilitates basic reading, writing, and speaking skills and fosters college-level literacy in Persian culture.","PERSIAN 1A. PERSIAN 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into PERSIAN 1B is also accepted."],"PERSIAN 1C":["PERSIAN","Fundamentals in Persian","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Persian. Students learn the modern writing system and grammar of Persian. Facilitates basic reading, writing, and speaking skills and fosters college-level literacy in Persian culture.","PERSIAN 1B or PERSIAN S1AB. PERSIAN 1B with a grade of C or better. PERSIAN S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into PERSIAN 1C is also accepted."],"PERSIAN 2A":["PERSIAN","Intermediate Persian","Designed for students to advance their Persian language skills from introductory to intermediate level. Student will advance their understanding of grammar and syntax. Facilitates intermediate-level reading, writing, and speaking skills. Fosters college-level cultural literacy.","PERSIAN 1C or PERSIAN S1BC. PERSIAN 1C with a grade of C or better. PERSIAN S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into PERSIAN 2A is also accepted."],"PERSIAN 2B":["PERSIAN","Intermediate Persian","Designed for students to advance their Persian language skills from introductory to intermediate level. Students will advance their understanding of grammar and syntax. Facilitates intermediate-level reading, writing, and speaking skills. Fosters college-level cultural literacy.","PERSIAN 2A. PERSIAN 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into PERSIAN 2B is also accepted."],"PERSIAN 2C":["PERSIAN","Intermediate Persian","Designed for students to advance their Persian language skills from introductory to intermediate level. Students will advance their understanding of grammar and syntax. Facilitates intermediate-level reading, writing, and speaking skills. Fosters college-level cultural literacy.","PERSIAN 2B. PERSIAN 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into PERSIAN 2C is also accepted."],"PERSIAN 10A":["PERSIAN","Persian Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. PERSIAN 10A is for language mentors.",""],"PERSIAN 10B":["PERSIAN","Persian Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. PERSIAN 10B is for language mentees.",""],"PERSIAN 50":["PERSIAN","Persian Culture","Study of varied topics in Persian culture, area studies, and society, both in the present and in historical perspective. Topics are not normally repeated for a two-year period.",""],"PERSIAN 150":["PERSIAN","Topics in Advanced Persian Culture","In-depth examination of major works in premodern and modern Persian literature and\/or the arts, with specific emphasis upon historical and cultural context and relevant societal issues and trends. Course is conducted in English.",""],"PERSIAN 165A":["PERSIAN","Modern Iran: Cinema and the City","Exploring modern Iran through film, literature, photography, travel writing, and philosophy and social science texts that introduce students to important concepts in post-colonial studies, social thought, war culture, religion, and media as experienced through the paradigm of a non-Western modernity.",""],"PERSIAN 199":["PERSIAN","Independent Study","Independent research with Persian faculty.",""],"PHRMSCI 1":["PHRMSCI","New Student Seminar","Weekly meetings consisting of presentations by faculty, professional staff, and Peer Academic Advisors provide information about the Pharmaceutical Sciences major, campus resources, learning skills, and special programs and opportunities.",""],"PHRMSCI 3":["PHRMSCI","Professional Development and Careers in the Pharmaceutical Sciences","Designed to help Pharmaceutical Science majors select a career track and prepare for graduate program applications and careers in industry.",""],"PHRMSCI 42":["PHRMSCI","Life 101            ","Covers the latest scientific work on the impact of nutrition, exercise, and lifestyle choices on mental and physical health. Motivates students to make positive changes by fostering personal growth.",""],"PHRMSCI 76":["PHRMSCI","Ethical Conduct of Research","Covers the ethical responsibilities of biomedical scientists. Topics include, as discussions and case studies, the high standards of science, the responsible conduct of research, animal experimentation, and clinical trials as they relate to the pharmaceutical sciences.",""],"PHRMSCI H80":["PHRMSCI","Drugs and Society","Where drugs come from, how drugs work, how and why people abuse drugs, the costs of drug abuse on society, which drugs are commonly abused, and how drug abuse can be prevented and treated. Course intended for non-science majors.","Recommended: High school chemistry and biology."],"PHRMSCI 90":["PHRMSCI","The Art of Public Speaking","Students learn to effectively prepare and present public speeches and slide presentations. Included are storytelling, informative, commemorative, and persuasive speeches, and scientific presentation. Evaluating speeches and strategies to reduce speaker apprehension is also covered.",""],"PHRMSCI 120":["PHRMSCI","Human Physiology","Covers the function of the human body. All major organ systems are discussed. Designed to prepare students for healthcare careers, such as medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, and for research careers which require basic knowledge of how the human body functions.","BIO SCI 99"],"PHRMSCI 120L":["PHRMSCI","Human Physiology Lab","Designed to complement PHRMSCI 120. Computer-based lab simulations are used to study the function of the human body. Class physically meet for review sessions and exams.","BIO SCI E109"],"PHRMSCI 122L":["PHRMSCI","Medical Microbiology Laboratory","An introduction to the structure, metabolism, cultivation, isolation, classification, and identification of the major groups of bacteria. Additional focus on identification of infection and use of antibiotics in diseased patients.","BIO SCI 99 and CHEM 51C. CHEM 51C with a grade of C- or better"],"PHRMSCI 142":["PHRMSCI","Healthspan Sciences","Covers the complex and multi-factorial process of aging and increases the understanding of factors that contribute to enhanced lifespan, including basic principles of health and wellness and scientifically proven interventions, both pharmacological and non-pharmacological.","BIO SCI 98 and BIO SCI 99 and PHRMSCI 120"],"PHRMSCI 155":["PHRMSCI","Neuropsychopharmacology","Mechanisms underlying chemical signaling processes in the nervous system. Fundamental knowledge for understanding the cellular and molecular actions of drugs and their mechanisms of action on synaptic transmission. Applied neuropsychopharmacology including major drug classes and therapeutic uses.","PHRMSCI 170A. PHRMSCI 170A with a grade of C- or better"],"PHRMSCI 163":["PHRMSCI","Pharmacogenomics and Epigenetics","Survey of the genetic and epigenetic basis of inter-subject variability in response to drugs. Covers drug efficacy, safety, and need for their optimization in pharmacotherapy. Emphasizes genetic mechanisms of polymorphisms in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of representative therapeutic drugs.","BIO SCI 99"],"PHRMSCI 170A":["PHRMSCI","Molecular Pharmacology I","Molecular basis of drug-receptor action at the molecular and cellular levels. Structure-function of drug targets emphasizing enzymes, ion channels, and membrane transport proteins. Understanding how the drugs' mechanisms of action contribute to the development of more efficacious and safer drugs.","r corequisite: (CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C) and (PHRMSCI 120 or BIO SCI E109)"],"PHRMSCI 170B":["PHRMSCI","Molecular Pharmacology II","Introductory survey covering the molecular mechanisms of drugs that target the nervous system, such as anxiolytics, antidepressants, antipsychotics, hypnotics, muscle relaxants, and recreational drugs; drugs related to the immune system, including antibiotics, antihistamines, and immunosuppressants; drugs used to treat cancer.","PHRMSCI 170A"],"PHRMSCI 171":["PHRMSCI","Physical Biochemistry","Thermodynamics and kinetic fundamentals as applied to problems relevant to pharmaceutical sciences such as receptor\/enzyme-ligand interactions. Fundamentals of biophysical methods used in the pharmaceutical sciences including structure determination and biomolecular spectroscopy.","MATH 2B and PHYSICS 3C and (CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C) and BIO SCI 99"],"PHRMSCI 172":["PHRMSCI","Topics in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Presents information about various fields of research, study, careers, and graduate school opportunities in pharmaceutical sciences. Taught by guest lecturers from various disciplines including 199 research course faculty. Helps Pharmaceutical Sciences students select electives appropriate to their future goals.","r corequisite: BIO SCI 99 and (CHEM 51C or CHEM H52C)"],"PHRMSCI 173":["PHRMSCI","Pharmacotherapy","An exploration of the clinical application of medications to selected disease states. Focus is on an understanding of underlying principles of pharmacology and how this knowledge can be applied to treatment of diseases.","r corequisite: PHRMSCI 170B"],"PHRMSCI 174":["PHRMSCI","Biopharmaceutics and Nanomedicine","Introduces theories and tools of new drug formulations. Particularly new novel therapeutics based on biological materials, pathological characteristics utilized to achieve the maximum efficacy and specificity, and drug delivery systems based on emerging nanotechnology are extensively discussed.","PHRMSCI 170B"],"PHRMSCI 174L":["PHRMSCI","Biopharmaceutics and Nanomedicine Lab","Introduction to cancer drug screening using cellular models, and confirmation of comprehensive therapeutic efficacy using a live animal model. Includes basic cell culture, cytotoxicity assays, cell analysis, drug circulation test, and tumor eradication and imaging experiments. Materials fee.","PHRMSCI 170B and BIO SCI 100"],"PHRMSCI 175":["PHRMSCI","Drug Discovery Computing Techniques","Techniques used in computer-aided drug discovery, including theory behind these techniques and practical applications. Topics include scientific computing; python; classical force fields and simulations; visualization and movie-making; quantum mechanics in drug discovery; molecular dynamics; solvation models; and several others.","CSE 41 or I&C SCI 31. CSE 42 or I&C SCI 32 is recommended."],"PHRMSCI 177":["PHRMSCI","Medicinal Chemistry","An introduction of the basics of drug activity and mechanisms. Strategies used to identify lead compounds such as natural product chemistry, combinatorial chemistry, molecular modeling, and high-through put screening.  Relationship of molecular structure to pharmacological activity.","CHEM 51A and CHEM 51B and CHEM 51C and (BIO SCI 98 or CHEM 128)"],"PHRMSCI 177L":["PHRMSCI","Medicinal Chemistry Laboratory","An introduction of the basics of drug activity and mechanisms. Strategies used to identify lead compounds such as natural product chemistry, combinatorial chemistry, molecular modeling, and high-through put screening.  Relationship of molecular structure to pharmacological activity. Materials fee.","CHEM 51A and CHEM 51B and CHEM 51C and BIO SCI 100 and (BIO SCI 98 or CHEM 128)"],"PHRMSCI 179":["PHRMSCI","Emerging Technologies in Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicine","Introduces emerging, ground-breaking technologies in pharmaceutical sciences and medicine, including pharmacogenomics, genome editing, and stem cell and engineered T cell therapies. Explores these novel technologies with both their underlying theories and forward-thinking applications.",""],"PHRMSCI 197":["PHRMSCI","Professional Internship","Provides students with opportunity to develop leadership and professional skills necessary for competitive placement in their chosen industry. Students gain new and field-specific skills outside the classroom environment while participating in a supervised internship for a total of 100 hours.",""],"PHRMSCI 198":["PHRMSCI","Independent Study in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Students interested in independent study should arrange with a faculty member to sponsor and supervise such work. A time commitment of three hours per week per unit is expected. A written report is required at the end of each quarter.",""],"PHRMSCI 199":["PHRMSCI","Undergraduate Research","Original research in the laboratory of Pharmaceutical Sciences faculty. Attendance at regular research group meetings is also generally expected, and a quarterly written report is required. Strongly recommended for students considering research careers and\/or graduate degree programs.",""],"PHRMSCI H199":["PHRMSCI","Honors Research in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Undergraduate honors research in Pharmaceutical Sciences. A student time commitment of 10-15 hours per week is required.",""],"PHRMSCI 223":["PHRMSCI","Biological Macromolecules","Introduction to nucleic acid and protein structure, dynamics, and function. Topics include analytical methods, molecular evolution, folding, and catalysis.",""],"PHRMSCI 241":["PHRMSCI","Advanced Topics in Pharmacology","Application of pharmacological principles in disease therapy.  Advanced pharmacological mechanisms and in-depth study of drug action.  Discussion of several major drug classes\/therapeutic strategies:  molecular mechanisms of action, physiological consequences of administration, and clinical use.",""],"PHRMSCI 250A":["PHRMSCI","Current Topics in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Intended to expose students to the primary literature and current research in the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Students analyze and present information for discussion. Guest speakers from academia and industry may participate throughout the quarter.",""],"PHRMSCI 250B":["PHRMSCI","Current Topics in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Intended to expose students to the primary literature and current research in the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Students analyze and present information for discussion. Guest speakers from academia and industry may participate throughout the quarter.","PHRMSCI 250A"],"PHRMSCI 250C":["PHRMSCI","Current Topics in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Intended to expose students to the primary literature and current research in the field of Pharmaceutical Sciences. Students analyze and present information for discussion. Guest speakers from academia and industry may participate throughout the quarter.","PHRMSCI 250B"],"PHRMSCI 251":["PHRMSCI","Experimental Pharmacology","Introduction to the concepts and techniques used in pharmacological science. Molecular biology, quantitative and biochemical pharmacology, fluorescent probes, behavior, genetics, animal handling, anatomical and receptor binding analysis, methods for ion channel study, the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination of drugs.",""],"PHRMSCI 254":["PHRMSCI","Introduction to Pharmacology","Ligand-gated ion channels, G protein-coupled receptors, receptor tyrosine kinases, ligand-regulated transcription factors, their signaling mechanisms, trafficking, macromolecular complexes, and physiological responses.",""],"PHRMSCI 255":["PHRMSCI","Neuropharmacology","Mechanisms underlying chemical signaling processes in the brain and periphery. Molecular biology, signal transduction, transmitter synthesis, and inactivation of major neurotransmitter systems. Drugs that act on these major neurotransmitters.",""],"PHRMSCI 256":["PHRMSCI","Experimental Design for Pharmacologists","Population and sample statistics, hypothesis testing, analysis of variance, nonparametric statistics, experimental design, power, and the use of statistical computer software.","PHARM 251"],"PHRMSCI 257":["PHRMSCI","Ethics in Research","Ethical conduct in research including data handling, authorship, conflict of interest, animal rights, handling of misconduct.","PHARM 299"],"PHRMSCI 263":["PHRMSCI","Pharmacogenomics and Epigenetics","Survey of the genetic and epigenetic basis of inter-subject variability in response to drugs. Covers drug efficacy, safety, and the need for their optimization in pharmacotherapy.Emphasizes genetic mechanisms of polymorphisms in the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of representative therapeutic drugs.",""],"PHRMSCI 264":["PHRMSCI","The RNA World: From Discovery to Mechanism","Provides a comprehensive understanding of RNA in biology. Use of knowledge gained in organic chemistry, biochemistry, genomics, and molecular biology to understand how RNA is integrated into contemporary biology.",""],"PHRMSCI 265":["PHRMSCI","New Frontiers in Chemical and Synthetic Biology","Explores new developments in chemical and synthetic biology that span the areas of chemistry, molecular biology, genetics, bioengineering, systems biology, and computational genomics.",""],"PHRMSCI 270":["PHRMSCI","Advanced Pharmacology","Provides a mechanism-based overview of pharmacology with strong emphasis on clinical application of pharmacology. Students learn the most recent advances in pharmacology as they relate to drug discovery, development, and clinical application.",""],"PHRMSCI 272":["PHRMSCI","Special Topics in Pharmaceutical Sciences","Reserved for current topics of particular interest in areas of pharmaceutical sciences that are not covered by other courses. The subject will vary from year to year, highlighting, for example, significant emerging fields or highly specialized but vital research areas.",""],"PHRMSCI 275":["PHRMSCI","Drug Discovery Computing Techniques","Techniques used in computer-aided drug discovery, including theory behind these techniques and practical applications. Topics include scientific computing; python; classical force fields and simulations; visualization and movie-making; quantum mechanics in drug discovery; molecular dynamics; solvation models; and several others.",""],"PHRMSCI 277":["PHRMSCI","Medicinal Chemistry","Fundamentals of medicinal chemistry covering diverse aspects of drug design, discovery, synthesis, and development. Molecular basis of drug action with an emphasis on the structure-to-function continuum.",""],"PHRMSCI 279":["PHRMSCI","Emerging Technologies in Pharmaceutical Sciences and Medicine","Introduces emerging, ground-breaking technologies in pharmaceutical sciences and medicine, including pharmacogenomics, genome editing, and stem cell and engineered T cell therapies. Explores these novel technologies with both their underlying theories and forward-thinking applications.",""],"PHRMSCI 298":["PHRMSCI","Research Seminar       ","Presentation and discussion of current problems and methods in teaching and research in pharmaceutical sciences.",""],"PHRMSCI 299":["PHRMSCI","Graduate Research","Supervised original research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"PHRMSCI 399":["PHRMSCI","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"PHARM 270":["PHARM","Applied Pharmacology ","One week (five days, 40 hours) in-residence course offered on the UCI campus. Introduction to pharmacological techniques and current research problems; includes laboratory demonstrations and research seminars.",""],"PHARM 271":["PHARM","Principles of Pharmacology ","Principles of pharmacology: pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenetics, drug interactions, and toxicity.",""],"PHARM 272":["PHARM","Receptors and Drug Targets ","Molecular basis of drug-receptor interaction. Receptor properties including gene and protein structure, signaling mechanisms, trafficking and physiological effects: G-protein linked receptors, ligand-gated ion channels, receptor tyrosine kinases, nuclear receptors, and ligand regulated transcription factors.",""],"PHARM 274":["PHARM","Research Techniques in Pharmacology","Experimental techniques and model systems used in pharmacological research. Receptor analysis, bioassay, molecular biology, in vitro pharmacology, biochemical pharmacology, imaging, electrophysiology, in vivo pharmacology, disease models.",""],"PHARM 276":["PHARM","Experimental Design and Data Analysis ","Experimental design, data analysis and interpretation. Population and sample statistics, hypothesis testing, analysis of variance, nonparametric statistics, and power calculations.",""],"PHARM 277":["PHARM","Ethics in Scientific Research","Ethical conduct in research including data handling, authorship, conflict of interest, animal rights, and handling of misconduct.",""],"PHARM 278":["PHARM","Concepts in Drug Discovery","Critical steps involved in discovery and optimization of a new drug. Target selection, relationship of molecular structure to pharmacological activities, screening methods, strategies to identify lead compounds, and preclinical characterization necessary for development of the drug for clinical trials.",""],"PHARM 279":["PHARM","Special Topics in Pharmacology","Topics of current interest in pharmacology; discussion of recent research publications.",""],"PHARM 280":["PHARM","Master's Project in Pharmacology","Capstone research paper on topic of interest in pharmacology.",""],"PHARM 281":["PHARM","Neuropharmacology    ","Autonomic and central nervous system pharmacology, including major drug classes and therapeutic uses. Mechanisms underlying chemical signaling processes in the brain and peripheral nervous system, including neurotransmitter synthesis, inactivation, and receptor action.",""],"PHARM 282":["PHARM","Behavioral Pharmacology","Pharmacology of integrative function and behavior. Drug treatment of pain. Mechanisms of reward, addiction, and drugs of abuse.",""],"PHARM 283":["PHARM","Cardiovascular Pharmacology","Basic understanding of drugs used in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease. Mechanisms of action, clinical and adverse effects.",""],"PHARM 284":["PHARM","Endocrine, Respiratory, and Gastrointestinal Pharmacology ","Basic understanding of drugs used in endocrine, respiratory, and gastrointestinal conditions, including hormone replacement, contraceptives, and drugs for diabetes, asthma, obesity, ulcer, and gastric reflux. Mechanisms of drug action, clinical and adverse effects.",""],"PHARM 298":["PHARM","Seminar","Presentation and discussion of current problems and methods in teaching and research in pharmacology, toxicology, and therapeutics.",""],"PHARM 299":["PHARM","Research","Independent research with Pharmacology and Toxicology faculty.",""],"PHMD 200A":["PHMD","Interprofessional Clinical Foundations I","The first course in a four-part series that covers interprofessional patient communication, medical interviewing, physical examination, and health promotion. Direct instruction in professionalism, diversity, social determinants of health, kindness, mindfulness, well-being, epidemiology, and biostatistics.",""],"PHMD 200B":["PHMD","Interprofessional Clinical Foundations II","The second course in four-part series that covers interprofessional communication, medical interviewing, physical examination, and health promotion. Direct instruction in professionalism, diversity, social determinants of health, kindness, mindfulness, well-being, epidemiology, and biostatistics.","PHMD 200A"],"PHMD 200C":["PHMD","Interprofessional Clinical Foundations III","The third course in a four-part series that covers interprofessional communication, medical interviewing, physical examination, and health promotion. Direct instruction in professionalism, diversity, social determinants of health, kindness, mindfulness, well-being, epidemiology, and biostatistics.","PHMD 200A and PHMD 200B"],"PHMD 200D":["PHMD","Interprofessional Clinical Foundations IV","The fourth course in a four-part series that covers interprofessional communication, medical interviewing, physical examination, and health promotion. Direct instruction in professionalism, diversity, social determinants of health, kindness, mindfulness, well-being, epidemiology, and biostatistics.","PHMD 200A and PHMD 200B and PHMD 200C"],"PHMD 201A":["PHMD","Principles of Pharmacy Practice I","The first of a four-part series that covers the function and role of the health care team, Pharmacist Patient Care Process, immunization certification, communication and documentation, informatics, patient safety, interviewing, active listening, management\/leadership, careers, resiliency, and student wellness.",""],"PHMD 201B":["PHMD","Principles of Pharmacy Practice II","The second of a four-part series that covers the function and roles of the health care team, Pharmacist Patient Care Process, immunization certification, communication and documentation, informatics, patient safety, interviewing, active listening, management\/leadership, careers, resiliency, and student wellness.","PHMD 201A"],"PHMD 201C":["PHMD","Principles of Pharmacy Practice III","The third of a four-part series that covers the function and role of the health care team, Pharmacist Patient Care Process, immunization certification, communication and documentation, informatics, patient safety, interviewing, active listening, management\/leadership, careers, resiliency, and student wellness.","PHMD 201A and PHMD 201B"],"PHMD 201D":["PHMD","Principles of Pharmacy Practice IV","The fourth of a four-part series that covers the function and role of the health care team, Pharmacist Patient Care Process, immunization certification, communication and documentation, informatics, patient safety, interviewing, active listening, management\/leadership, careers, resiliency, and student wellness.","PHMD 201A and PHMD 201B and PHMD 201C"],"PHMD 202A":["PHMD","Self Care I: Conventional and Complementary","Educates pharmacy students about healthy lifestyle choices, the importance of mental and physical health, and self-care. Provides students with methods and techniques for dealing with the stressors of a professional educational environment and life challenges.",""],"PHMD 202B":["PHMD","Self Care II: Conventional and Complementary","The study of nonprescription products, complementary\/alternative medicine, and non-pharmacological interventions for select self-treatable medical conditions commonly encountered by the pharmacist. Emphasis on the pharmacist's consultant role in product selection and non-pharmacological recommendations.","PHMD 202A"],"PHMD 202C":["PHMD","Self Care III: Conventional and Complementary","Relates to patients' ability to care for themselves with emphasis on the pharmacist's consultant role and continues to explore self-treatable medical conditions commonly encountered by pharmacists, including non-pharmacologic interventions, nonprescription medications, and complementary\/alternative products to treat them.","PHMD 202A and PHMD 202B"],"PHMD 203A":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy Principles to Practice I: Central Nervous System","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers the central nervous system.",""],"PHMD 203B":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy Principles to Practice II: Immunology","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers the immune system.","PHMD 203A"],"PHMD 203C":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy - Principles to Practice III: Cardiovascular and Respiratory Systems","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers the cardiovascular and respiratory systems.","PHMD 203A and PHMD 203B"],"PHMD 203D":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy - Principles to Practice IV: Endocrine System","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers the endocrine system.",""],"PHMD 203E":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy - Principles to Practice V: Gastrointestinal System, Dermatologic, and Opthalmologic Disorders","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers gastrointestinal, dermatologic, and opthalmologic disorders.",""],"PHMD 203F":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy - Principles to Practice VI: Infectious Diseases","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers gastrointestinal, dermatologic, and opthalmologic disorders.",""],"PHMD 203G":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy - Principles to Practice VII: Hematology and Oncologic Disorders","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers hematology and oncologic disorders.",""],"PHMD 203H":["PHMD","Pharmacotherapy - Principles to Practice VIII: Special Population and Nutritional Disorders","Integrates principles of biomedical and pharmaceutical sciences with evidence-based traditional and non-traditional therapies for management and prevention of disease. Topics include clinical chemistry, clinical toxicology, interprofessional health care, and public health. Covers special population and nutritional disorders.",""],"PHMD 204A":["PHMD","Information Analytics and Numeracy I: Biostatistics","Exposure to basic statistics and techniques that are commonly found in the medical and pharmacy literature, covering descriptive and inferential statistics. Students learn to choose the most appropriate statistical parametric and non-parametric tests and interpret findings from the literature.",""],"PHMD 204B":["PHMD","Information Analytics and Numeracy II: Drug Information, Research Methods, and Literature Analysis","Addresses development of knowledge, skills, and attitudes required for biomedical inquiry and discovery, including methods for data retrieval, analysis, interpretation, and synthesis.","PHMD 204A"],"PHMD 204C":["PHMD","Information Analytics and Numeracy III: Epidemiology","Covers distribution of disease and health in groups of people and the factors that influence the distribution, including evaluation of therapeutic and diagnostic treatments and delivery of health care services.","PHMD 204A and PHMD 204B"],"PHMD 205A":["PHMD","Molecular Basis of Health and Disease I: Microbiology and Immunology","Principles of medical microbiology, immunology, virology, and parasitology.  Introduction to classification, morphology, and physiology of microorganisms, particularly those that cause human pathology - bacteria, viruses, fungi, protozoans, parasite, and worms - and the body's immune response.","PHMD 213 and PHMD 220"],"PHMD 205B":["PHMD","Molecular Basis of Health and Disease II: Microbiology and Immunology ","Principles of medical microbiology, immunology, virology, and parasitology. Introduction to classification, morphology, and physiology of microorganisms, particularly those that cause human pathology - bacteria, viruses, fungi, protozoans, parasite, and worms - and the body's immune response.","PHMD 213 and PHMD 220"],"PHMD 205C":["PHMD","Molecular Basis of Health and Disease III: Clinical Chemistry","Emphasis on normal human physiology and pathology as it related to clinical chemistry and assessment of disease states with the context of the Pharmacist Patient Care Process. Alterations of clinical chemistry results due to drug therapy are covered.","PHMD 205A and PHMD 205B"],"PHMD 210":["PHMD","Principles of Pharmacology","Provides an overview of the basic principles of pharmacology, covering pharmacodynamics - effects of drugs on the body - and pharmacokinetics - the process by which a drug is absorbed, distributed, metabolized, and excreted by the body.","PHMD 220 and PHMD 277A and PHMD 277B"],"PHMD 211":["PHMD","Principles of Public Health","Covers the framework, principles, and core responsibilities of public health research and practice from multidisciplinary perspectives. It also provides the necessary foundation for further studies using crosscutting approaches essential for public health practice.",""],"PHMD 212":["PHMD","Principles of Pharmacogenomics","Walks students through the basics of genetics and genomics. Particular emphasis is placed on the use of genetics or genetic testing to assist in patient treatment regimens and evaluation of disease.",""],"PHMD 213":["PHMD","Pharmaceutical Biochemistry","Topics include the biological, chemical and cellular roles of carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids, hormones, enzymes and vitamins. In addition, the chemical and cellular basis of digestion, intermediary metabolism, biological oxidation and metabolic antagonism are discussed.",""],"PHMD 214":["PHMD","Pharmacy Law and Ethics","An introduction to California and federal legal requirements that impact pharmacy practice, emphasizing the legal and ethical principles applied by pharmacists in their decision-making. Explores approaches for resolving ethical dilemmas in patient care.",""],"PHMD 215":["PHMD","Health Policy and Pharmacoeconomics","Introduces students to the organization, financing, and delivery of health care services in the U.S. The relationship of providers, patients, payers, etc., are analyzed. Management and research principles utilized to manage drug therapy are introduced.",""],"PHMD 216":["PHMD","Clinical Toxicology","Fundamentals of pharmacology and mechanisms of action are reinforced and applied to learn the clinical effects of acute\/chronic exposure derived from environmental, dietary, occupational and pharmaceutical sources. Students focus on information literacy skills and clinical management of poisonings.","PHMD 210"],"PHMD 220":["PHMD","Medical Physiology with Anatomic Correlates","Concepts of physiology and mechanisms of body function at various levels of organization from cellular to organ systems. Emphasis on quantitative understanding of various body processes. Human anatomy is integrated with physiological concepts. Anatomic-physiologic relationships facilitated through virtual labs.",""],"PHMD 274A":["PHMD","Pharmaceutics I","The first in a foundational series designed to develop an understanding of the science behind drug formulation, mechanisms, pharmacokinetics and interconnections with the Pharmacist Patient Care Process.",""],"PHMD 274B":["PHMD","Pharmaceutics II","The second course in a foundational series designed to develop an understanding of the science behind drug formulation, mechanisms, pharmacokinetics and interconnections with the pharmacist patient care process. Topics include drug substances, dosage forms, and therapeutic effects. Includes laboratory.","PHMD 274A"],"PHMD 274C":["PHMD","Pharmaceutics III ","The final course in a foundational series designed to develop an understanding of the science behind drug formulation, mechanisms, pharmacokinetics,and interconnections with the Pharmacist Patient Care Process. In laboratory, students perform pharmacokinetic modeling, drug screening, and comprehensive therapeutic efficacy.","PHMD 274A and PHMD 274B"],"PHMD 277A":["PHMD","Medicinal Chemistry I","Application of organic chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology, physical chemistry, pharmacology, and physiology to understand the theory and mechanics of modern day medicinal chemistry. Topics include receptor-protein structure, dynamics, and interactions; drug development and design; and pharmacodynamics, and pharmacokinetics.",""],"PHMD 277B":["PHMD","Medicinal Chemistry II","Walks students through medicinal chemistry, broadly defined. Students utilize the knowledge gained in organic chemistry, biochemistry, molecular biology, physical chemistry, pharmacology and physiology in an integrated fashion as applied to modern medicinal chemistry. Continuation of Medicinal Chemistry I.","PHMD 277A"],"PHMD 280A":["PHMD","Scholarly Project I","Provides students an opportunity to develop independent thinking, with particular focus on maturing analytical skills. Students are encouraged to develop an independent project, with a mentor, to study pharmacy-related aspects of multiple areas. First phase identifies project focus.",""],"PHMD 280B":["PHMD","Scholarly Project II","Provides students an opportunity to develop independent thinking, with particular focus on maturing analytical skills. Students develop an independent project, with a mentor, to study pharmacy-related aspects of multiple areas. Phase 2 focuses on final evaluation of project.",""],"PHMD 290":["PHMD","Doctor of Pharmacy Epilogue","Reinforces and assesses student pharmacist's performance on cumulative learning outcomes; pre-APPE and APPE knowledge, skills, and attitudes; entrustable professional activities; team- and practice-readiness; and to demonstrate that student pharmacists are achieving outcomes required by the ACPE.",""],"PHMD 298":["PHMD","Research Seminar ","Designed to engage students and expose them to seminar speakers that come to discuss research or case studies in pharmaceutical sciences and pharmacy.",""],"PHILOS 1":["PHILOS","Introduction to Philosophy","A selection of philosophical problems, concepts, and methods, e.g., free will, cause and substance, personal identity, the nature of philosophy itself. Materials fee.",""],"PHILOS 2":["PHILOS","Puzzles and Paradoxes","Introduction to the formal tools needed to comprehend and evaluate philosophical arguments and theoretical reasoning in general.",""],"PHILOS 3":["PHILOS","Technology and Society","A study of the nature of technology, its relation to human values, the philosophical assumptions in its development, and the philosophical implications of technology.",""],"PHILOS 4":["PHILOS","Introduction to Ethics","Selected topics from the history of ethics, e.g., the nature of the good life and the moral justification of conduct.",""],"PHILOS 5":["PHILOS","Contemporary Moral Problems","Selected moral issues of current interest, e.g., abortion, sexual morality, euthanasia, capital punishment, reverse discrimination, civil disobedience, or violence.",""],"PHILOS 7":["PHILOS","Introduction to Existentialism","An analysis of themes in phenomenology and existentialism and their philosophical origins, e.g., consciousness, self and other, freedom and individuality.",""],"PHILOS 10":["PHILOS","History of Ancient Philosophy","Examination of the central philosophical themes developed by the pre-Socratics, Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, the Stoics, the Epicureans, and the Skeptics.",""],"PHILOS 11":["PHILOS","History of Medieval Philosophy","A study of some of the major theological and philosophical texts from the Medieval period.","Recommended: PHILOS 10. "],"PHILOS 12":["PHILOS","History of Modern Philosophy","A study of major developments in western philosophy from Descartes to Kant with readings from Descartes, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant.","Recommended: PHILOS 10 or PHILOS 11. "],"PHILOS 13":["PHILOS","History of Contemporary Philosophy","A study of recent philosophical developments in Anglo-American and Continental philosophy with readings from such figures as Russell, Moore, Wittgenstein, Quine, Heidegger, and Sartre.","Recommended: PHILOS 12."],"PHILOS 21":["PHILOS","Philosophy and Religion","Examines the intersection of religion and philosophy from a standpoint that does not presuppose previous academic study of either.  Both Western and Eastern traditions and perspectives may be explored.",""],"PHILOS 22":["PHILOS","Introduction to Law and Society","What constitutes a legal system? What does it mean for a society to have a system as a part of the social fabric. Examines the social status of law and its use as a tool for fashioning society.",""],"PHILOS 29":["PHILOS","Critical Reasoning","Introduction to analysis and reasoning. The concepts of argument, premise, and conclusion, validity and invalidity, consistency and inconsistency. Identifying and assessing premises and inferences. Deductive versus inductive reasoning, and introduction to the probability calculus. Evaluating definitions. Informal fallacies.",""],"PHILOS 30":["PHILOS","Introduction to Symbolic Logic","An introduction to the symbolism and methods of the logic of statements, including evaluation of arguments by truth tables, the techniques of natural deduction, and semantic tableaux.",""],"PHILOS 31":["PHILOS","Introduction to Inductive Logic","Philosophical questions concerning the foundations of scientific inference, e.g., the traditional problem of induction, the Goodman paradox, the concept of cause, Mill's method of inductive reasoning, probability calculus, different interpretations of probability, and their interaction in inductive reasoning.",""],"PHILOS 40":["PHILOS","Special Topics in Philosophy","Lectures on selected topics at the lower-division level.",""],"PHILOS 91":["PHILOS","The Philosophy of Sex","Discusses the origins of biological sex, dynamics of sexual selection, sex differences in humans, and the construction of gender in human societies. Seeks to understand the role social values play in the creation of science.",""],"PHILOS 100W":["PHILOS","Writing Philosophy","Discussion of those aspects of writing of special importance in philosophy, e.g., philosophical terminology, techniques for evaluating arguments, philosophical definitions and theories. At least 4,000 words of assigned composition based on philosophical readings.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PHILOS 101":["PHILOS","Introduction to Metaphysics","A study of one or more of the problems of \"first philosophy,\" e.g., substance, free will, causation, abstract entities, identity.",""],"PHILOS 102W":["PHILOS","Introduction to the Theory of Knowledge","A study of one or more of the basic issues in epistemology, e.g., the role of perception in the acquisition of knowledge, the nature of evidence, the distinction between belief and knowledge, and the nature of truth and certainty.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. "],"PHILOS 103":["PHILOS","Introduction to Moral Philosophy","A study of one or more of the problems of contemporary moral philosophy, e.g., the nature of justice, liberalism versus conservatism, happiness and its relation to virtue and right conduct, the objectivity of moral standards.",""],"PHILOS 104":["PHILOS","Introduction to Logic","Introduction to sentence logic, including truth tables and natural deduction; and to predicate logic, including semantics and natural deduction.",""],"PHILOS 105A":["PHILOS","Elementary Set Theory","An introduction to the basic working vocabulary of mathematical reasoning. Topics include sets, Boolean operations, ordered n-tuples, relations, functions, ordinal and cardinal numbers.",""],"PHILOS 105B":["PHILOS","Metalogic","Introduction to formal syntax (proof theory) and semantics (model theory) for first-order logic, including the deduction, completeness, compactness, and Loewenheim-Skolem theorems.","LSCI 145A or LPS 105A or PHILOS 105A"],"PHILOS 105C":["PHILOS","Undecidability and Incompleteness","Introduction to the formal theory of effective processes, including recursive functions, Turing machines, Church's thesis, and proofs of Goedel's incompleteness theorem for arithmetic, and Church's undecidability theorem for first-order logic.","LSCI 145B or LPS 105B or PHILOS 105B"],"PHILOS 106":["PHILOS","Topics in Logic      ","Selected topics in mathematical or philosophical logic.","PHILOS 105B or LPS 105B"],"PHILOS 108":["PHILOS","Topics in Induction, Probability, and Decision Theory","Selected topics in induction, probability, and decision theory.",""],"PHILOS 110":["PHILOS","Topics in Ancient Philosophy","Selected topics from the writings of Plato and Aristotle, e.g., Aristotle's criticisms of Plato's metaphysics, ethics, or politics.",""],"PHILOS 111":["PHILOS","Topics in Medieval Philosophy","Studies of some of the major issues of concern to Medieval philosophers, e.g., universals, the nature and existence of God, faith, and reason.",""],"PHILOS 113":["PHILOS","Topics in Modern Philosophy","Focuses on the works of central philosophical figures of modern Philosophy (e.g., Descartes, Leibniz, Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Kant) or on the treatment of one or more central philosophical problems by a number of these figures.",""],"PHILOS 114":["PHILOS","Topics in Nineteenth-Century Philosophy","Studies of some of the major figures after Kant (e.g., Hegel, Nietzsche, Marx, Kierkegaard), especially in German idealism and social thought.",""],"PHILOS 115":["PHILOS","Topics in History of Analytic Philosophy","Review of central theories or figures in the history of analytic philosophy. Emphasis on writings of Frege, Russell, Schlick, Carnap, and Quine. Topics include the nature of meaning and truth, the synthetic\/analytic distinction, and scientific knowledge.",""],"PHILOS 117":["PHILOS","Topics in Asian Philosophy","Selected topics in the philosophies of Asia, e.g. Jainism, Buddhism, Yoga, Vedanta, Confucianism, Taoism, and Shinto.",""],"PHILOS 120":["PHILOS","Topics in Metaphysics","Examines central philosophical questions concerning our own fundamental nature and that of the world around us (e.g., causation and necessity, determination, free will, personal identity, the mind-body problem).",""],"PHILOS 121":["PHILOS","Topics in the Theory of Knowledge ","One or more topics in the theory of knowledge, e.g., the nature of rational justification, of perceptual knowledge, of a priori knowledge.",""],"PHILOS 121A":["PHILOS","Medical Epistemology","Analysis of epistemological issues concerning medical research and health care. Topics may include medical evidence, transmission of medical knowledge, medical expertise, the epistemology of medical disagreement, classification of illnesses, well-being, philosophy of pain, and medical decision making.",""],"PHILOS 122":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Mind","Selected topics involving the concept of mind, e.g., the relation between mind and body, the self, personal identity, consciousness, the unconscious.",""],"PHILOS 123":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Religion","Critical examination of concepts involved in the theological literature, e.g., the nature and existence of God, miracles, the problem of evil, divine command theories in ethics.",""],"PHILOS 124":["PHILOS","Topics in Feminist Epistemology","Investigates the nature of knowledge from a feminist standpoint. Emphasizes the relevance of the knower's gender and social situatedness in knowledge practices against a traditional account of knowledge as a detached activity of an independent, neutral subject.",""],"PHILOS 130":["PHILOS","Topics in Moral Philosophy","Selected topics in ethics.",""],"PHILOS 131A":["PHILOS","Applied Ethics","Topics may include capital punishment, world hunger, obligations to future generations, environmental ethics, animal rights, economic justice, sexual morality, affirmative action, racism and sexism, or legalization of drugs.",""],"PHILOS 131C":["PHILOS","Medical Ethics","Analysis of moral issues concerning health care. Topics may include just allocation of scarce medical resources, the doctor\/patient relationship, genetic engineering, surrogate motherhood, abortion, euthanasia, or social policy concerning AIDS.",""],"PHILOS 133":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Law","Selected topics concerning legal systems and the concept of law, e.g., the nature and purpose of law, the nature of authority, the relationship between law and morality, law and political-economic systems.",""],"PHILOS 134":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Gender and Race","Controversies about race and racism, and sex and sexism, continue to play an important role in the public domain. Explores philosophical questions relating to gender and race.",""],"PHILOS 135A":["PHILOS","The Scientific Revolution","An examination of early modern European science from 1500-1700. Includes primary readings from central figures (Copernicus, Harvey, Bacon, Descartes, et al.); themes include the impact of printing, humanism, patronage, technology, and discussion of the term \"revolution\" in this context.",""],"PHILOS 140":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Science","Selected topics in contemporary philosophy of science, e.g., the status of theoretical entities, the confirmation of theories, the nature of scientific explanation.",""],"PHILOS 141B":["PHILOS","Geometry and Spacetime","An examination of the foundations of the special theory of relativity, with emphasis on the geometry of Minkowski spacetime, and its relation to both Euclidean and non-Euclidean (hyperbolic) plane geometries.","MATH 2D and (MATH 3A or MATH 6G)"],"PHILOS 141D":["PHILOS","Probability and Determinism","An examination of a cluster of interrelated issues concerning probability, determinism, logic, and the foundations of quantum mechanics.","MATH 2D and (MATH 3A or MATH 6G)"],"PHILOS 142W":["PHILOS","Writing\/Philosophy of Biology","Philosophy of biology, e.g., scientific method in biology, the structure of evolutionary theory, teleology, ethics, and evolution. Course work includes one 4,000-word and four 1,000-word papers.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PHILOS 143":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Psychology","Selected topics in the philosophy of psychology, e.g., the nature of psychological explanation, reductionism, issues in cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience.",""],"PHILOS 144":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Social Science","Selected topics in the philosophy of the social sciences, e.g.: Is their goal to understand behavior or to predict and control it? Are they normative and the natural sciences not? Do they incorporate philosophical doctrines about language and mind?.",""],"PHILOS 145":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Language","Selected topics in the philosophy of language, e.g., the nature of meaning, mechanisms of reference, speech acts.",""],"PHILOS 147":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Mathematics","Selected historical and contemporary topics in the philosophy of mathematics, e.g., mathematical truth and ontology, mathematical knowledge, the nature and role of proof, the workings of mathematics in application.",""],"PHILOS 150":["PHILOS","Phenomenology       ","A study of the foundations of phenomenology in Husserl and its background in Bolzano, Frege, Brentano, Meinong, Kant, and Descartes.",""],"PHILOS 162":["PHILOS","Social Ontology","Examines how things in one's social environment exist. Such things are compared and contrasted to others in what might be regarded as the given, natural environment. Topics discussed include natural kinds; artifacts; essentialism; constructivism; intentionality; agency.",""],"PHILOS 163":["PHILOS","Social Epistemology","Social epistemology is specifically concerned with questions concerning knowledge and justification that arise in a social context. Topics discussed include testimony, experts, disagreement, group knowledge, feminist epistemology, legal epistemology, and epistemology of education.",""],"PHILOS 164":["PHILOS","Well-Being","Examines what it is that makes a life good (or bad) for the person who lives it. Topics include hedonism, desire-satisfaction theories of well-being (as well as other such theories), the notion of harm, the possibility of posthumous harm.",""],"PHILOS 165":["PHILOS","Philosophy of Action","Philosophy of action is specifically concerned with questions concerning the nature of acting, and related phenomena such as intending, willing, trying, and trusting. It deals both with individual and group action and their moral and epistemological  underpinnings.",""],"PHILOS 190":["PHILOS","Special Topics in Philosophy","Lectures on selected topics to be given by regular faculty and visiting faculty.",""],"PHILOS 199":["PHILOS","Directed Special Studies","Independent study on a research topic supervised by a faculty member.",""],"PHILOS 199H":["PHILOS","Honors Directed Special Studies","Independent study on a research topic supervised by a faculty member, with the objective of preparing the Department of Philosophy honors paper.",""],"PHILOS 200":["PHILOS","Special Topics in Philosophy","Seminars on selected topics to be given by regular faculty and visiting faculty.",""],"PHILOS 201":["PHILOS","First-Year Seminar","An examination of some standard works in the history of philosophy, value theory, metaphysics, or epistemology; required of all first-year Philosophy graduate students in the School of Humanities.",""],"PHILOS 205A":["PHILOS","Set Theory","The basic working vocabulary of mathematical reasoning. Topics include: sets, Boolean operations, ordered n-tuples, relations, functions, ordinal and cardinal numbers.",""],"PHILOS 205B":["PHILOS","Metalogic","Formal syntax (proof theory) and semantics (model theory) for first-order logic, including the deduction, completeness, compactness, and Loewenheim-Skolem theorems.","PHILOS 205A or LPS 205A"],"PHILOS 205C":["PHILOS","Undecidability and Incompleteness","Formal theory of effective processes, including recursive function, Turing machines, Church's thesis, proofs of Goedel's incompleteness theorem for arithmetics, and Church's undecidability for first-order logic.","PHILOS 205B or LPS 205B"],"PHILOS 206":["PHILOS","Topics in Logic      ","Studies in selected areas of logic. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 210":["PHILOS","Topics in Ancient Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of ancient philosophy.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 212":["PHILOS","Topics in Renaissance Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of renaissance philosophy.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 213":["PHILOS","Topics in Modern Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of modern philosophy.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 215":["PHILOS","Topics in Analytic Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of analytic philosophy.  Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 218":["PHILOS","Topics in Contemporary Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of contemporary philosophy. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 220":["PHILOS","Topics in Metaphysics","Studies in selected areas of metaphysics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 221":["PHILOS","Topics in Epistemology","Studies in selected areas of epistemology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 221A":["PHILOS","Medical Epistemology","Analysis of epistemological issues concerning medical research and healthcare. Topics may include medical evidence, transmission of medical knowledge in the doctor-patient interaction, medical expertise, epistemology of medical disagreement, classification of illness, well-being, philosophy of pain, or medical decision making.",""],"PHILOS 230":["PHILOS","Topics in Ethics     ","Studies in selected areas of ethics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 232":["PHILOS","Topics in Political and Social Philosophy","Studies in selected areas of political and social philosophy. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 240":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Science","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 241":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Physics","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of physics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 242":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Biology","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of biology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 243":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Psychology","Selected topics in the philosophy of psychology, e.g., the nature of psychological explanation, reductionism, issues in cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience.",""],"PHILOS 244":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Social Science","Studies in selected areas of philosophy and social science. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 245":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Language","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of language. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 246":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Logic","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of logic. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 247":["PHILOS","Topics in Philosophy of Mathematics","Studies in selected areas of philosophy of mathematics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHILOS 298":["PHILOS","Independent Study","Independent research with Philosophy faculty.",""],"PHILOS 299":["PHILOS","Directed Research","Directed research with Philosophy faculty.",""],"PHILOS 399":["PHILOS","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"PHY SCI 5":["PHY SCI","California Teach 1: Introduction to Science and Mathematics Teaching","First in a series for students interested in becoming middle or high school teachers of mathematics or science. Students gain an understanding of effective, research-based teaching strategies. Includes supervised field experience in a K-12 classroom.",""],"PHY SCI 9":["PHY SCI","Introduction to Computation for Scientists and Engineers","Introduces principles, techniques, and computational tools for quantitative approach to basic problem solving in physics and engineering. Project-based course that actively explores how programing techniques are used for solving STEM real-world problems.","r corequisite: MATH 2A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"PHY SCI 80":["PHY SCI","Skills Development","Undergraduates identify, cultivate, and practice relevant soft skills applicable to careers in mathematics and science. The focus is on career readiness, how to market oneself to future employers, and what to expect from the professional world."," Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PHY SCI 105":["PHY SCI","California Teach 2: Middle School Science and Mathematics Teaching","Second in a series for students interested in becoming middle or high school teachers of mathematics or science. Students gain an understanding of effective, research-based teaching strategies for grades 6-8. Includes supervised field experience in a middle school classroom.","PHY SCI 5"],"PHY SCI 139W":["PHY SCI","Technical Writing and Communication Skills","Workshop in writing technical reports, journal articles, proposals. Oral presentations. Communicating with the public. May not be used in satisfaction of any School or departmental requirement.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PHY SCI 220":["PHY SCI","Science Communication Skills","Development of effective communication skills, oral and written presentations. Topics range from the art of creating keynote slides to strategically crafting a personal story, culminating in a live presentation to an invited audience.",""],"PHYSICS 2":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Mathematical Methods for Physics","Provides the applied mathematics and problem solving\/presentation skills necessary for success in an introductory physics sequence. Focuses on practical exercises in problem solving. Covers kinematics in one and two dimensions in detail. Additional topics include vectors, differentiation, and integration.","r corequisite: MATH 2A or MATH 5A or AP Calculus AB or AP Calculus BC. AP Calculus AB with a minimum score of 4. AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 3"],"PHYSICS 3A":["PHYSICS","Basic Physics I","Vectors; motion, force, and energy.",""],"PHYSICS 3B":["PHYSICS","Basic Physics II","Fluids; heat; electricity and magnetism.","PHYSICS 3A or AP Physics C: Mechanics. AP Physics C: Mechanics with a minimum score of 5"],"PHYSICS 3C":["PHYSICS","Basic Physics III","Waves and sound; optics; quantum ideas; atomic and nuclear physics; relativity.","PHYSICS 3A or AP Physics C: Mechanics. AP Physics C: Mechanics with a minimum score of 5"],"PHYSICS 3LB":["PHYSICS","Basic Physics Laboratory","Practical applications of electronics and classical physics to biology. Goals include skill to use oscilloscope and other basic instrumentation. Materials fee.",""],"PHYSICS 3LC":["PHYSICS","Basic Physics Laboratory","Practical applications of physics to medical imaging.  Topics include optics, radioactivity, and acoustics. Materials fee.",""],"PHYSICS 7C":["PHYSICS","Classical Physics","Topics include force, energy, momentum, rotation, and gravity.","Recommended: PHYS 2 or (MATH 2D and (CHEM 1C or CHEM H2C or CHEM M3C) or CHEM M2C) or AP Physics C: Mechanics or AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism or SAT Mathematics or ACT Mathematics or passing score on self-assessment test. PHYS 2 with a grade of C or better. AP Physics C: Mechanics with a minimum score of 4. AP Physics C: Electricity and Magnetism with a minimum score of 4. SAT Mathematics with a minimum score of 650. ACT Mathematics with a minimum score of 27. Students are recommended to take a self-assessment test provided by the UCI Department of Physics and Astronomy. If the student can fairly easily answer at least 75 percent of the questions with a calculator, but no other help, then the student is ready to take Physics 7C and should enroll in it if they have completed one year of high school physics and are Math 2B ready (or have credit for Math 2B). "],"PHYSICS 7D":["PHYSICS","Classical Physics","Electricity and magnetism.","PHYSICS 7C and (MATH 2B or AP Calculus BC). AP Calculus BC with a minimum score of 4"],"PHYSICS 7E":["PHYSICS","Classical Physics","Fluids; oscillations; waves; and optics.","PHYSICS 7C and MATH 2B"],"PHYSICS 7LC":["PHYSICS","Classical Physics Laboratory","Experiments related to lecture topics in Physics 7C. Materials fee.",""],"PHYSICS 7LD":["PHYSICS","Classical Physics Laboratory","Electricity and magnetism.",""],"PHYSICS 12":["PHYSICS","Science Fiction and Science Fact","An introduction to fundamental physics principles, the scientific process, and the mathematical language of science, used to analyze topics drawn from superheroes, science fiction works, and current science news to distinguish science fiction and science fact.",""],"PHYSICS 14":["PHYSICS","Energy and the Environment","The physics of society's energy production and consumption, and of their influences on the environment. Topics include fossil and renewable energy resources; nuclear power; prospects for a hydrogen economy; efficient and environmentally benign transportation; efficient home and commercial energy usage.",""],"PHYSICS 15":["PHYSICS","Physics of Music","Introduces basic physical principles underlying generation and properties of music, including basic properties of sound waves, musical scales and temperament, musical instruments, and acoustics of music halls.  No mathematics background required, but high school algebra is recommended.",""],"PHYSICS 18":["PHYSICS","How Things Work","Survey of the physical basis of modern technology, with an emphasis on electronics and materials. Topics include power generation and distribution, communication (radio, TV, telephone, computers, tape recorders, CD players), imaging (optics, x-rays, MRI), and modern materials (alloys, semiconductors, superconductors).",""],"PHYSICS 19":["PHYSICS","Great Ideas of Physics","Introduces non-science majors to physics, examining important breakthroughs and controversies. Potential topics: Einstein's Relativity; Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle; black holes; extra-dimensions; antimatter. Case studies illustrate the essential nature of scientific review and independent confirmation of results. No mathematics background required.",""],"PHYSICS 20A":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Astronomy","History of astronomy. Underlying physics. Objects in the solar system and how they are studied. Properties of stars: their formation, structure, and evolution. Pulsars and black holes. Galaxies and quasars.",""],"PHYSICS 20B":["PHYSICS","Cosmology: Humanity's Place in the Universe","An overview of the origin, evolution, and ultimate fate of the Universe. Galaxies and dark matter. The Big Bang and dark energy.  Ancient world models.",""],"PHYSICS 20D":["PHYSICS","Space Science","Space exploration. Human missions to the moon, Mars, and beyond. Space stations, observatories, and deep-space probes. Robots and drones on distant worlds. Propulsion mechanisms, rockets, space flight, and the dangers of solar radiation.",""],"PHYSICS 20E":["PHYSICS","Life in the Universe","An overview of the scientific quest to discover life elsewhere in the universe. Topics include the origin of life on Earth, Mars, extra-solar planets, interstellar travel, and extra-terrestrial intelligence.",""],"PHYSICS 21":["PHYSICS","Special Topics in Physics","Topics addressed vary each quarter. Past topics have included physics and music, Newton, planetary science. Lectures on areas of special interest in physics used to introduce students to scientific method, fundamental laws of science, qualitative and quantitative analysis of data.",""],"PHYSICS 50":["PHYSICS","Introductory Mathematical Physics","Introduction to math methods for upper-division physics. Taylor and Fourier series; complex algebra; ordinary differential equations; matrices, tensors and vector spaces; eigensystems; orthogonal coordinates; vector calculus and fields. Symbolic computation with Mathematica is incorporated through-out.","MATH 3A"],"PHYSICS 51A":["PHYSICS","Modern Physics","Wave-particle duality; quantum mechanics; special relativity; statistical mechanics.","(PHYSICS 7E or PHYSICS 3C) and MATH 2D"],"PHYSICS 52A":["PHYSICS","Fundamentals of Experimental Physics","Optics: lenses, mirrors, polarization, lasers, optical fibers, interference, spectra. Materials fee.",""],"PHYSICS 52B":["PHYSICS","Fundamentals of Experimental Physics","Circuits: oscilloscope, meters, DC and AC circuits. Materials fee.","PHYSICS 7D or PHYSICS 3B"],"PHYSICS 52C":["PHYSICS","Fundamentals of Experimental Physics","Data analysis: random and systematic errors, curve fitting; nuclear counting; quantum experiments. Error analysis: random and systematic errors, curve fitting, nuclear counting, and quantum experiments. Materials fee.","PHYSICS 51A or PHYSICS 61A"],"PHYSICS 53":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Programming and Numerical Analysis","Introduction to structured programming; in-depth training in python. Elementary numerical methods applied to physics problems.","MATH 3A and MATH 3D"],"PHYSICS 60":["PHYSICS","Thermal Physics","Introduction to thermodynamics and systems of many particles. Topics include first and second laws of thermodynamics, ideal gas laws, kinetic theory, heat engines and refrigerators, thermodynamic potentials, phase transitions, dilute solutions, chemical equilibrium, and basic statistical distributions.","(PHYSICS 7E or PHYSICS 3C) and MATH 2D"],"PHYSICS 61A":["PHYSICS","Modern Physics for Majors","Special relativity; Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle and wave-particle duality; the Schrodinger equation.","(PHYSICS 7E or PHYSICS 3C) and MATH 2D"],"PHYSICS 61B":["PHYSICS","Modern Physics for Majors","Hydrogen atom; spin and angular momentum; multi-electron atoms and the periodic table; introductions to nuclear physics, particle physics, and cosmology.","PHYSICS 61A or PHYSICS 51A"],"PHYSICS 61C":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Astrophysics","Introduction to fundamental topics in astrophysics, including stellar structure and evolution; stellar remnants; detection and characterization of exoplanets; physics of interstellar gas and star-forming regions.","PHYSICS 61A or PHYSICS 51A"],"PHYSICS H80":["PHYSICS","Impact of World War I on Science","Introduction to science in 1914 and WWI. Participants in groups of two or three will pick a preferred science; find out what happened to it during and after the war; write reports and present what they learned.",""],"PHYSICS H90":["PHYSICS","The Idiom and Practice of Science","A series of fundamental and applied scientific problems of social relevance. Possible topics include Newton's Law, calculus, earthquake physics, and radiation.",""],"PHYSICS 99":["PHYSICS","Current Topics in Physics","Designed to introduce undergraduate students to current topics in physics. Focus is discussion of selected readings on current research issues.",""],"PHYSICS 100":["PHYSICS","Computational Methods","Mathematical and numerical analysis using Mathematica and C programming, as applied to problems in physical science.","MATH 3A or MATH H3A"],"PHYSICS 106W":["PHYSICS","Advanced Data Acquisition, Analysis, and Scientific Writing","Introduces modern practical laboratory techniques for developing data interface devices, acquiring and analyzing data, and writing up results in manuscript format. Experiments include interfacing with instruments through software and hardware development, PID controller, Fourier analysis, and lock-in amplifier.","PHYSICS 52B and PHYSICS 194"],"PHYSICS 111A":["PHYSICS","Classical Mechanics","One-dimensional motion and oscillations; three-dimensional motion, non-inertial coordinates, conservation laws, and Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics; rigid body motion and relativity.","(PHYSICS 7E or PHYSICS 3C)"],"PHYSICS 111B":["PHYSICS","Classical Mechanics","One-dimensional motion and oscillations; three-dimensional motion, non-inertial coordinates, conservation laws, and Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics; rigid body motion and relativity.","PHYSICS 111A"],"PHYSICS 112A":["PHYSICS","Electromagnetic Theory","Electric, magnetic, and gravitational fields and potentials; electrodynamics; mechanical and electromagnetic waves and radiation.","(PHYSICS 7D or PHYSICS 3B) and PHYSICS 50"],"PHYSICS 112B":["PHYSICS","Electromagnetic Theory","Electric, magnetic, and gravitational fields and potentials; electrodynamics; mechanical and electromagnetic waves and radiation.","PHYSICS 7E and PHYSICS 112A"],"PHYSICS 113A":["PHYSICS","Quantum Mechanics","The wave function and its interpretation; time independent and time dependent Schrodinger equation; Hilbert space and the uncertainty principle; systems in one to three dimensions; the hydrogen atom, angular momentum and spin.","(PHYSICS 51A or PHYSICS 61A) and PHYSICS 50"],"PHYSICS 113B":["PHYSICS","Quantum Mechanics","Identical particles in quantum systems; atoms and the periodic table; theories of solids; time-independent perturbation theory; fine structure of hydrogen, the Zeeman effect and hyperfine structure; the variational principle; the WKB approximation and tunneling.","PHYSICS 111B and PHYSICS 112B and PHYSICS 113A"],"PHYSICS 113C":["PHYSICS","Quantum Mechanics","Symmetries and conservation laws in quantum mechanics; degeneracy; quantum dynamics and selection rules; scattering theory; time-dependent perturbation theory; emission and absorption of radiation; Fermi's golden rule; selected contemporary topics.","PHYSICS 111B and PHYSICS 112B and PHYSICS 113B"],"PHYSICS 115A":["PHYSICS","Statistical Physics","Microscopic theory of temperature, heat, and entropy; kinetic theory; multicomponent systems; quantum statistics.","PHYSICS 50 and (PHYSICS 60 or CHEM 1C or ENGRMAE 91)"],"PHYSICS 116":["PHYSICS","Relativity and Black Holes","Introduces students to both special and general relativity; includes the formalism of four-vectors, equivalence principle, curved space-time, and modern issues with black holes.","PHYSICS 50 and PHYSICS 111A"],"PHYSICS 120":["PHYSICS","Electronics for Scientists","Applications of modern semiconductor devices to physical instrumentation. Characteristics of semiconductor devices, integrated circuits, analog and digital circuits. Materials fee.","PHYSICS 52B"],"PHYSICS 121W":["PHYSICS","Advanced Laboratory","Experiments in atomic, condensed matter, nuclear, particle, and plasma physics. Introduction to instrumentation and a first experience in the research laboratory.","(PHYSICS 51B or PHYSICS 61B or PHYSICS 61C) and (PHYSICS 52C or PHYSICS 193) and (PHYSICS 194 or EDUC 143BW)"],"PHYSICS 125A":["PHYSICS","Mathematical Physics","Complex variables; Legendre and Bessel functions; complete sets of orthogonal functions; partial differential equations; integral equations; calculus of variations; coordinate transformations; special functions and series.","PHYSICS 50 and MATH 3D"],"PHYSICS 125B":["PHYSICS","Mathematical Physics","Complex variables; Legendre and Bessel functions; complete sets of orthogonal functions; partial differential equations; integral equations; calculus of variations; coordinate transformations; special functions and series.","PHYSICS 125A and PHYSICS 113A"],"PHYSICS 133":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Condensed Matter Physics","Phenomena of solids and their interpretation in terms of quantum theory.","PHYSICS 113B and PHYSICS 115A"],"PHYSICS 134A":["PHYSICS","Physical and Geometrical Optics","Focuses on the practical aspects of optics and optical engineering, starting at the fundamentals. Topics include geometrical optics, ray tracing, polarization optics, interferometers, and diffractive optics.","PHYSICS 52A"],"PHYSICS 135":["PHYSICS","Plasma Physics","Basic concepts, orbits, kinetic and fluid equations, Coulomb collisions, fluctuations, scattering, radiation.","PHYSICS 112B"],"PHYSICS 136":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Particle Physics","Experimental techniques and theoretical concepts of high-energy phenomena: accelerators and detectors; classification of particles and interactions; particle properties; symmetries and mass multiplets; production and decay mechanisms.","PHYSICS 113B"],"PHYSICS 137":["PHYSICS","Introduction to Cosmology","Solution of the differential equations governing the expansion of the Universe. Observational determinations of the parameters governing the expansion. Big Bang inflation, primordial nucleosynthesis, and cosmic microwave background. Dark matter, dark energy, and large-scale structure of the Universe.","r corequisite: PHYSICS 111A"],"PHYSICS 138":["PHYSICS","Astrophysics of Galaxies","Introduction to the solar neighborhood, Milky Way, and other galaxies. Interstellar medium. Star formation. Stellar populations. Evolution of spiral, elliptical, and irregular galaxies. Supermassive black holes, quasars, and active galaxies. Galaxies as probes of the expansion rate of the Universe.","PHYSICS 111A and PHYSICS 61C"],"PHYSICS 139":["PHYSICS","Observational Astrophysics","Telescopes and astronomical observations, imaging with CCD detectors and image processing techniques. Photometry and spectroscopy of stars, galaxies, and quasars. Advanced imaging techniques such as deconvolution, adaptive optics, and interferometry.","PHYSICS 52A and PHYSICS 52B and PHYSICS 52C and (PHYSICS 53 or I&C SCI 45C or EECS 12)"],"PHYSICS 144":["PHYSICS","Stellar Astrophysics","Stars: their structure and evolution; physical state of the interior; the Hertzprung- Russell diagram, stellar classification, and physical principles responsible for the classification; star formation; nuclear burning; giant and dwarf stars; neutron stars and black holes.","(PHYSICS 51A or PHYSICS 61A) and PHYSICS 111A and PHYSICS 112A"],"PHYSICS 145":["PHYSICS","High-Energy Astrophysics","Production of radiation by high-energy particles, white dwarfs, neutron stars, and black holes. Evolution of galactic nuclei, radio galaxies, quasars, and pulsars.  Cosmic rays and the cosmic background radiation.","(PHYSICS 51A or PHYSICS 61A) and PHYSICS 111A and PHYSICS 112A"],"PHYSICS 146A":["PHYSICS","Biophysics of Molecules and Molecular Machines","Physical concepts and experimental and computational techniques used to study the structure and function of biological molecules and molecular machines with examples from enzyme action, protein folding, molecular motors, photobiology, chemotaxis, and vision.","PHYSICS 115A"],"PHYSICS 146B":["PHYSICS","Biophysics of Molecules and Molecular Machines","Physical concepts and experimental and computational techniques used to study the structure and function of biological molecules and molecular machines with examples from enzyme action, protein folding, molecular motors, photobiology, chemotaxis, and vision.","PHYSICS 115A"],"PHYSICS 147C":["PHYSICS","Techniques in Medical Imaging II: Ultrasound, Electrophysiological, Optical","Sound and ultrasound, ultrasonic imaging, physiological electromagnetism, EEG, MEG, ECG, MCG, optical properties of tissues, fluorescence and bioluminescence, MR impedance imaging, MR spectroscopy, electron spin resonance and ESR imaging.","PHYSICS 147B"],"PHYSICS 150":["PHYSICS","Special Topics in Physics and Astronomy","Current topics in physics.  Includes topics from nano-science, biological sciences, astrophysics, and the common use of estimation across subdisciplines within physics.",""],"PHYSICS 191":["PHYSICS","Field Experience in Physics Education","Students develop and perform physics assemblies at neighboring public schools.","PHYSICS 7C and PHYSICS 7D and PHYSICS 7E"],"PHYSICS 192":["PHYSICS","Tutoring in Physics","Formalizes the already existing free tutoring for the lower-division physics courses that is provided by the Society of Physics Students (SPS). Includes instructions on tutoring techniques.","PHYSICS 7E"],"PHYSICS 193":["PHYSICS","Research Methods","Explores tools of inquiry for developing and implementing science research projects.  Students undertake independent projects requiring data collection, analysis, and modeling, and the organization and presentation of results.  Additional topics include ethical issues and role of scientific literature.","BIO SCI 14 or PHY SCI 5"],"PHYSICS 194":["PHYSICS","Research Communication for Physics Majors","Students learn the fundamentals of communicating about research. Topics include preparing abstracts, proposals, and literature reviews. Provides preparation for presentation of independent research projects in PHYSICS 121 and PHYSICS 196.","PHYSICS 61A or PHYSICS 51A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PHYSICS 195":["PHYSICS","Undergraduate Research","Independent research under the guidance of a Physics faculty member.",""],"PHYSICS 196A":["PHYSICS","Thesis in Physics I","Independent research for seniors conducted under the guidance of a faculty member. Students' research results are discussed in oral presentations, and a written proposal, progress report, and thesis are submitted.",""],"PHYSICS 196B":["PHYSICS","Thesis in Physics II","Independent research for seniors conducted under the guidance of a faculty member. Students' research results are discussed in oral presentations, and a written proposal, progress report, and thesis are submitted.","PHYSICS 196A"],"PHYSICS 196C":["PHYSICS","Thesis in Physics III","Independent research for seniors conducted under the guidance of a faculty member. Students' research results are discussed in oral presentations, and a written proposal, progress report, and thesis are submitted.","PHYSICS 196B"],"PHYSICS H196A":["PHYSICS","Honors Thesis in Physics I","Independent research for seniors conducted under the guidance of a faculty member. Students' research results are discussed in oral presentations, and a written proposal, progress report, and thesis are submitted.",""],"PHYSICS H196B":["PHYSICS","Honors Thesis in Physics II","Independent research for seniors conducted under the guidance of a faculty member. Students' research results are discussed in oral presentations, and a written proposal, progress report, and thesis are submitted.","PHYSICS H196A"],"PHYSICS H196C":["PHYSICS","Honors Thesis in Physics III","Independent research for seniors conducted under the guidance of a faculty member. Students' research results are discussed in oral presentations, and a written proposal, progress report, and thesis are submitted.","PHYSICS H196B"],"PHYSICS 199":["PHYSICS","Readings on Special Topics","Readings in selected areas of Physics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PHYSICS 206":["PHYSICS","Advanced Data Acquisition and Analysis","Introduces students to a variety of practical laboratory techniques, including lock-in, boxcar, coincidence counting, noise filtering, PID control, properties of common transducers, computer interfacing to instruments, vacuum technology, laboratory safety, basic mechanical design, and shop skills. Materials fee.",""],"PHYSICS 207":["PHYSICS","Applied Physical Chemistry","Introduction to fundamental concepts in molecular structure and reactivity: theory of bonding, valence and molecular orbitals; structure and reactivity in inorganic chemistry; elements in molecular group theory; nomenclature in organic chemistry; and survey of macromolecules.",""],"PHYSICS 208":["PHYSICS","Math Methods","Applications of mathematics to physical and chemical problems. Calculus of special functions, complex variables and vectors; linear vector spaces and eigenvalue problems. Differential equations.",""],"PHYSICS 211":["PHYSICS","Classical Mechanics","Variational principles, Lagrange's equations; applications to two body problems, small oscillation theory, and other phenomena. Hamilton's equations. Hamilton-Jacobi theory. Canonical transformations.",""],"PHYSICS 212A":["PHYSICS","Mathematical Physics","Complex variables and integration; ordinary and partial differential equations; the eigenvalue problem.",""],"PHYSICS 213A":["PHYSICS","Electromagnetic Theory","Electrostatics; magnetostatics; relativity; classical electron theory; fields in vacuum and matter; retardation; radiation and absorption; dispersion; propagation of light; diffraction; geometric optics; theories of the electric and magnetic properties of materials; scattering.",""],"PHYSICS 213B":["PHYSICS","Electromagnetic Theory","Electrostatics; magnetostatics; relativity; classical electron theory; fields in vacuum and matter; retardation; radiation and absorption; dispersion; propagation of light; diffraction; geometric optics; theories of the electric and magnetic properties of materials; scattering.","PHYSICS 213A"],"PHYSICS 214A":["PHYSICS","Statistical Physics","Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein, Fermi-Dirac statistics; ideal and imperfect gases; thermodynamic properties of solids; transport theory.",""],"PHYSICS 214C":["PHYSICS","Many Body Theory","Application of field theory methods, perturbative and non-perturbative, to many particle systems; second quantization, Feynman diagrams, linear response theory, and functional integral methods applied to the ground state and at finite temperature.","PHYSICS 214A and PHYSICS 215A and PHYSICS 215B"],"PHYSICS 215A":["PHYSICS","Quantum Mechanics","Foundations; Dirac notation; basic operators and their eigenstates; perturbation theory; spin.",""],"PHYSICS 215B":["PHYSICS","Quantum Mechanics","Atomic physics; scattering theory, formal collision theory; semi-classical radiation theory; many body systems.","PHYSICS 215A"],"PHYSICS 220":["PHYSICS","Electronics for Scientists","Applications of modern semiconductor devices to physical instrumentation. Characteristics of semiconductor devices, integrated circuits, analog and digital circuits.",""],"PHYSICS 222":["PHYSICS","Continuum Mechanics","Introduction to the continuum limit and stress and strain tensors. Hydrodynamics of perfect fluids; two-dimensional problems, motion of incompressible viscous fluids, Navier Stokes equations. Basic elasticity theory. Description of viscoelastic materials. Introduction to nonlinear behavior instabilities.",""],"PHYSICS 223":["PHYSICS","Machine Learning and Statistics","Theory and practice of machine learning and statistics for physics and astronomy. Topics include: clustering, dimensionality reduction, Bayesian statistics, Markovchains, variational inference, supervised and unsupervised learning, neural networks and modern deep learning architectures. Familiarity with python numerical programing assumed.",""],"PHYSICS 228":["PHYSICS","Electromagnetism","Maxwell's equations, electrodynamics, electromagnetic waves and radiation, wave propagation in media, interference and quantum optics, coherent and incoherent radiation, with practical applications in interferometry, lasers, waveguides, and optical instrumentation.",""],"PHYSICS 229A":["PHYSICS","Computational Methods","Mathematical and numerical analysis using Mathematica and C programming, as applied to problems in physical science.",""],"PHYSICS 230A":["PHYSICS","Biophysics of Molecules and Molecular Machines","Physical concepts and experimental and computational techniques used to study the structure and function of biological molecules and molecular machines with examples from enzyme action, protein folding, molecular motors, photobiology, chemotaxis, and vision.",""],"PHYSICS 230B":["PHYSICS","Biophysics of Molecules and Molecular Machines","Physical concepts and experimental and computational techniques used to study the structure and function of biological molecules and molecular machines with examples from enzyme action, protein folding, molecular motors, photobiology, chemotaxis, and vision.",""],"PHYSICS 234A":["PHYSICS","Elementary Particle Physics","Overview of Standard Model theory and phenomenology. Electromagnetic, strong and weak forces, quark model, interactions with matter, particle detectors and accelerators.","PHYSICS 215B"],"PHYSICS 234B":["PHYSICS","Advanced Elementary Particle Physics","SU(3)xSU(2)xU(1) model of strong, weak, and electromagnetic interactions. K-meson system and CP violation, neutrino masses and mixing, grand-unified theories, supersymmetry, introduction to cosmology and its connection to particle physics.","PHYSICS 234A and PHYSICS 235A"],"PHYSICS 234C":["PHYSICS","Advanced Elementary Particle Physics","SU(3)xSU(2)xU(1) model of strong, weak, and electromagnetic interactions. K-meson system and CP violation, neutrino masses and mixing, grand-unified theories, supersymmetry, introduction to cosmology and its connection to particle physics.","PHYSICS 234A and PHYSICS 235A"],"PHYSICS 235A":["PHYSICS","Quantum Field Theory","Canonical quantization, scalar field theory, Feynman diagrams, tree-level quantum electrodynamics.","PHYSICS 215B"],"PHYSICS 235B":["PHYSICS","Advanced Quantum Field Theory","Pathintegral techniques, loop diagrams, regularization and renormalization, anomalies.","PHYSICS 235A"],"PHYSICS 238A":["PHYSICS","Condensed Matter Physics","Bonding in solids; crystal symmetry and group theory, elastic properties of crystals; lattice vibrations, interaction of radiation with matter; cohesion of solids; the electron gas; electron energy bands in solids; ferromagnetism; transport theory; semiconductors and superconductors; many-body perturbation theory.","PHYSICS 133 and (PHYSICS 214A or CHEM 232A) and (PHYSICS 215B or CHEM 231B)"],"PHYSICS 238B":["PHYSICS","Condensed Matter Physics","Bonding in solids; crystal symmetry and group theory, elastic properties of crystals; lattice vibrations, interaction of radiation with matter; cohesion of solids; the electron gas; electron energy bands in solids; ferromagnetism; transport theory; semiconductors and superconductors; many-body perturbation theory.","PHYSICS 238A"],"PHYSICS 238C":["PHYSICS","Condensed Matter Physics","Bonding in solids; crystal symmetry and group theory, elastic properties of crystals; lattice vibrations, interaction of radiation with matter; cohesion of solids; the electron gas; electron energy bands in solids; ferromagnetism; transport theory; semiconductors and superconductors; many-body perturbation theory.","PHYSICS 238B"],"PHYSICS 239A":["PHYSICS","Plasma Physics","Basic concepts, orbits, kinetic and fluid equations, Coulomb collisions, fluctuations, scattering, radiation.",""],"PHYSICS 239B":["PHYSICS","Plasma Physics","Magnetic confinement, MHD equilibrium and stability, collisional transport.","PHYSICS 239A"],"PHYSICS 239C":["PHYSICS","Plasma Physics","Linear waves and instabilities, uniform un-magnetized and magnetized plasmas, non-uniform plasmas.","PHYSICS 239B"],"PHYSICS 240A":["PHYSICS","Galactic Astrophysics","The morphology, kinematics, and evolution of our Milky Way and other galaxies.  Topics include stellar formation and stellar evolution, end states of stars (supernovae, neutron stars), the distribution of stars, interstellar gas and mass in galaxies. The Local Group.",""],"PHYSICS 240B":["PHYSICS","Cosmology","An introduction to modern cosmology set within the context of general relativity.  Topics include the expansion history of the Universe, inflation, the cosmic microwave background, density fluctuations, structure formation, dark matter, dark energy, and gravitational lensing.",""],"PHYSICS 240C":["PHYSICS","Radiative Processes in Astrophysics","Exploration of radiation mechanisms (electron scattering, synchrotron emission, collisional excitation, and more) and radiative transfer through matter including absorption and emission. Includes such observational astrophysics topics as spectroscopic study of atoms and nuclei, X-rays, and cosmic rays.",""],"PHYSICS 241A":["PHYSICS","Solar System and Extrasolar Planets","Formation, evolution, and habitability of planetary systems. Observational and theoretical study of the origin and evolution of the Solar System, present day dynamical state of the Solar System (asteroids, Kuiper Belt Objects, Oort cloud), planetary atmospheres, processes governing planetary climate.",""],"PHYSICS 241B":["PHYSICS","Stellar Astrophysics","Physics of stellar interiors and equations of stellar structure. Stellar atmospheres and absorption processes. Introduction to stellar winds. Thermonuclear reactions, nucleosynthesis, and solar neutrinos. Binary stars and mass accretion. White dwarfs, supernovae, neutron stars, and black holes.","PHYSICS 242"],"PHYSICS 241C":["PHYSICS","Extragalactic Astrophysics","The physics and phenomenology of galaxies; star formation, interstellar medium, and intergalactic medium. Galaxy structure and dynamics. Galaxy evolution, stellar populations, and scaling relations; the relationship between galaxy properties and environment. Galaxy clusters and active galactic nuclei.","PHYSICS 242"],"PHYSICS 241D":["PHYSICS","Early Universe Physics","Includes a thorough quantum treatment of the generation of perturbations during inflation and various topics related to kinetic theory in an expanding Universe. Other topics include the astrophysics and cosmology of weakly interacting particles.","PHYSICS 240B"],"PHYSICS 242":["PHYSICS","Astro Fundamentals","Introduction to topics in astrophysics including measurement of stellar properties, stellar structure and evolution, stellar remnants and supernovae, the interstellar medium, exoplanets, gravitational lensing, galactic structure, extragalactic distance measurements, and the expanding universe.",""],"PHYSICS 246":["PHYSICS","Special Topics in Astrophysics","Outlines and emphasizes a subarea of astrophysics that is undergoing rapid development.",""],"PHYSICS 247":["PHYSICS","Special Topics in Particle Physics","Current topics in particle non-accelerator-based research fields.",""],"PHYSICS 248":["PHYSICS","Special Topics in Condensed Matter Physics","Outlines and emphasizes a subarea of condensed matter physics that is undergoing rapid development.",""],"PHYSICS 249":["PHYSICS","Special Topics in Plasma Physics","Outlines and emphasizes a subarea of plasma physics that is undergoing rapid development.","PHYSICS 239A and PHYSICS 239B"],"PHYSICS 250":["PHYSICS","Physics and Astronomy Communications Skills","Fundamentals of effectively communicating research through written and oral platforms. Topics include writing compelling proposals and journal articles for peer review, and the development of engaging oral presentations of science results and significance to a wide range of audiences.",""],"PHYSICS 255":["PHYSICS","General Relativity","An introduction to Einstein's theory of gravitation. Tensor analysis, Einstein's field equations, astronomical tests of Einstein's theory, gravitational waves.",""],"PHYSICS 260A":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Condensed Matter Physics","Seminar designed to acquaint students with recent advances in solid state physics. Lecturers from the Department of Physics and Astronomy (both faculty and graduate students), other UCI departments, and other institutions.",""],"PHYSICS 260B":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Condensed Matter Physics","Seminar designed to acquaint students with recent advances in solid state physics. Lecturers from the Department of Physics and Astronomy (both faculty and graduate students), other UCI departments, and other institutions.",""],"PHYSICS 260C":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Condensed Matter Physics","Seminar designed to acquaint students with recent advances in solid state physics. Lecturers from the Department of Physics and Astronomy (both faculty and graduate students), other UCI departments, and other institutions.",""],"PHYSICS 261A":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Plasma Physics","Advanced topics in plasma physics:  wave propagation, nonlinear effects, kinetic theory and turbulence, stability problems, transport coefficients, containment, and diagnostics. Applications to controlled fusion and astrophysics.",""],"PHYSICS 261B":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Plasma Physics","Advanced topics in plasma physics:  wave propagation, nonlinear effects, kinetic theory and turbulence, stability problems, transport coefficients, containment, and diagnostics. Applications to controlled fusion and astrophysics.",""],"PHYSICS 261C":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Plasma Physics","Advanced topics in plasma physics:  wave propagation, nonlinear effects, kinetic theory and turbulence, stability problems, transport coefficients, containment, and diagnostics. Applications to controlled fusion and astrophysics.",""],"PHYSICS 263A":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Particle Physics","Discussion of advanced topics and reports of current research results in theoretical and experimental particle physics and cosmic rays.",""],"PHYSICS 263B":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Particle Physics","Discussion of advanced topics and reports of current research results in theoretical and experimental particle physics and cosmic rays.",""],"PHYSICS 263C":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Particle Physics","Discussion of advanced topics and reports of current research results in theoretical and experimental particle physics and cosmic rays.",""],"PHYSICS 265A":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Astrophysics","Acquaints students with current research in astrophysics. Lecturers from the Department of Physics and Astronomy and from other institutions.",""],"PHYSICS 265B":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Astrophysics","Acquaints students with current research in astrophysics. Lecturers from the Department of Physics and Astronomy and from other institutions.",""],"PHYSICS 265C":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Astrophysics","Acquaints students with current research in astrophysics. Lecturers from the Department of Physics and Astronomy and from other institutions.",""],"PHYSICS 266":["PHYSICS","Current Topics in Chemical, Applied, and Materials Physics","The subjects covered vary from year to year.  Connection between fundamental principles and implementations in practice in science, industry, and technology.",""],"PHYSICS 268":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Systems Microbiology Research","A research and journal club seminar that covers topics on bacteria and phage using approaches and principles from biology, engineering, and physics.",""],"PHYSICS 269":["PHYSICS","Seminar in Teaching Physics","Techniques for effective teaching.  Covers active listening and student engagement, problem-solving skills, peer instruction and collaborative learning, and evaluation.  Required of all new Teaching Assistants.",""],"PHYSICS 273":["PHYSICS","Technical Communication Skills","Development of effective communication skills, oral and written presentations, through examples and practice.",""],"PHYSICS 291":["PHYSICS","Research Seminar","Detailed discussion of research problems of current interest in the Department.  Format, content, and frequency of the course are variable.",""],"PHYSICS 295":["PHYSICS","Experimental Research","With the approval of a faculty member, a student may pursue a research program in experimental physics.  Typical areas include astrophysics, condensed matter physics, elementary particle physics, and plasma physics.",""],"PHYSICS 296":["PHYSICS","Theoretical Research","With approval of a faculty member, a student may pursue a research program in theoretical physics. Typical areas include astrophysics, condensed matter physics, elementary particle physics, and plasma physics.",""],"PHYSICS 298":["PHYSICS","Physics Colloquium","Seminar held each week, in which a current research topic is explored. Frequently, off-campus researchers are invited to present the seminar, and on occasion a faculty member or researcher from the Department will speak.",""],"PHYSICS 299":["PHYSICS","Reading of Special Topic","With special consent from a faculty member who will agree to supervise the program, a student may receive course credit for individual study of some area of physics.",""],"PHYSICS 395":["PHYSICS","Laboratory Teaching","Required of and limited to teaching assistants of undergraduate laboratory courses. Designed to teach the  necessary skills required of teaching assistants for these courses.",""],"PHYSICS 399":["PHYSICS","University Teaching","Required of and limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"PHYSIO 200":["PHYSIO","Research in Physiology and Biophysics","Individual research directed toward doctoral dissertation and supervised by a particular professor.",""],"PHYSIO 200R":["PHYSIO","Research in Physiology and Biophysics for First-Year Students","Independent research within the laboratories of graduate training faculty in the Department of Physiology and Biophysics for first-year Ph.D. students.",""],"PHYSIO 201":["PHYSIO","Introduction to Physiology Research","Introduction to research in physiology and related sciences. Concentrates on techniques emphasized in the various laboratories of the Department of Physiology and Biophysics.",""],"PHYSIO 204":["PHYSIO","Concepts of Biophysics","Principles of crystallography; introduction to time-resolved absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy; the concepts of kinetic order and kinetic rate theory.",""],"PHYSIO 205":["PHYSIO","Electronics for Biologists","Basic principles of electricity; properties and use of discrete components and integrated circuits; circuit analysis and design. Intended for advanced students in the life sciences.",""],"PHYSIO 206A":["PHYSIO","Introduction to Medical Physiology","Vertebrate physiology with emphasis on humans and on the relationship between the function of normal tissues and the processes of disease. Fundamental principles of physiology and the interrelationships which control organ function.","A biochemistry course."],"PHYSIO 206B":["PHYSIO","Introduction to Medical Physiology","Vertebrate physiology with emphasis on humans and on the relationship between the function of normal tissues and the processes of disease. Fundamental principles of physiology and the interrelationships which control organ function.","PHYSIO 206A"],"PHYSIO 208":["PHYSIO","Approaches in Circuit Neuroscience","Introduces modern methods in circuit neuroscience and how they are used to explore questions relating to the neurological basis of animal behavior. Emphasis is on rodent models but other model systems are incorporated where relevant.",""],"PHYSIO 212":["PHYSIO","Medical Immunology","One of the cornerstones of the MS1 Molecular Basis of Medicine block. Includes temporal coordination of lecture material, regular course director meetings, and combined exams with PHYSIO 544: Medical Immunology.",""],"PHYSIO 215":["PHYSIO","Integrative Immunology ","Provides an introduction to immunology, but focuses on providing in-depth analysis of selected topics within the broader field of immunology, including relevant research techniques, while improving critical thinking skills.",""],"PHYSIO 215B":["PHYSIO","Integrative Immunology II","Lectures and student presentations of primary literature. Focuses on advanced topics and cutting edge technologies in modern immunology.  Combination of didactic lectures and student-led journal article discussion.","PHYSIO 215. PHYSIO 215 with a grade of B+ or better"],"PHYSIO 232":["PHYSIO","The Physiology of Ion Channels","Discusses how ion channels work (molecular\/structural biophysics level) and what ion channels do in diverse cell types (cell physiology level).",""],"PHYSIO 252":["PHYSIO","Introduction to Proteomics","Introduces students to concepts and methods of proteomics including protein identification, expression proteomics, and protein-protein interactions.",""],"PHYSIO 272":["PHYSIO","Eye: Health and Disease","Introduces the anatomic and physiological basis of vertebrate vision and disease states in which the structure and function of the eye is disrupted with emphasis on current and developing research areas.",""],"PHYSIO 290":["PHYSIO","Topics in Physiology","Contemporary research problems in physiology. Students review research articles in current literature and present ideas contained therein, focusing on groundbreaking discoveries and methodologies. Students present results of their own research and attend presentations given by other students and departmental researchers.",""],"PHYSIO 292A":["PHYSIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"PHYSIO 292B":["PHYSIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"PHYSIO 292C":["PHYSIO","Scientific Communication","Small group meetings for graduate students to practice scientific writing, debate, and presentation skills.",""],"PHYSIO 299":["PHYSIO","Dissertation in Physiology and Biophysics","Preparation and completion of the dissertation required for the Ph.D.",""],"POL SCI 10C":["POL SCI","Probability and Statistics in Political Science III","Focus on correlation, regression, and control for effects of variables.  One-way and two-way factorial analysis of variance.  A priori and a posteriori comparisons.  Introduction to repeated measures design and non-parametric statistics. Discusses use of statistics in newspapers and popular magazines.","POL SCI 10B"],"POL SCI 11A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Political Science: Political Analysis","Presents various modes of understanding politics. Emphasis on basic approaches to political analysis, their uses in constructing theories, and their application to particular national political systems.",""],"POL SCI 11C":["POL SCI","Introduction to Political Science: Micropolitics","Introduction to political behavior of individuals and groups within national systems. Three questions addressed: How do individuals come to understand the political world? How do individuals behave within this world? How do groups and individuals engage in the political process.",""],"POL SCI 21A":["POL SCI","Introduction to American Government","Introduction to American political processes and institutions. Topics include elections, political participation, parties, interest groups, the Presidency, Congress, the bureaucracy, and the judiciary.",""],"POL SCI 31A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Political Theory","Types of questions:  What is politics?  What are the theoretical and philosophical bases for different types of political arrangements?  How do these perspectives get translated into reality?  Among others, the works of Rousseau, Locke, Mill, and Marx are read.",""],"POL SCI 32A":["POL SCI","Dilemmas of Diversity","Focuses on racial, ethnic, and gender diversity, multiculturalism, and their impact on our social and political ideals. Traces the sources of ideas about difference, equality, and toleration, and examines tensions that occur when forms of identity conflict with one another.",""],"POL SCI 41A":["POL SCI","Introduction to International Relations","Analysis of political relations between and among nations with emphasis on explanations of conflict and cooperation. The role of ideologies and their relation to international problems are also examined.",""],"POL SCI 44B":["POL SCI","Global Political Ideologies","An overview of the major political ideologies shaping the current world order and global conflict. Topics include liberalism, democracy, nationalism, capitalism, communism, socialism, fascism, neoliberalism, clash of civilizations, sectarian violence, populist nationalism, and de-globalization.",""],"POL SCI 45A":["POL SCI","Human Rights and Global Governance","Historical development of civil, political rights and the rise of human rights in international law. Explores role, and limitations, of the UN, ICJ, and ICC in global governance. Reconceptualizing democracy and political representation in a postnational 21st century.",""],"POL SCI 49":["POL SCI","Lower-Division Special Topics in International Relations","Studies in selected areas of international relations. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 51A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Politics Around the World","Introduces comparative politics. Compares political systems in a variety of countries. Includes elections, parties, parliaments, presidents, protest movements, and other aspects of national politics. Addresses how to make meaningful comparisons across countries.",""],"POL SCI 61A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Race and Ethnicity in Political Science","Examines major theories that attempt to explain the roles of race and ethnicity in U.S. politics.",""],"POL SCI 71A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Law","An introduction to the study of judicial politics.  Questions include:  what is law?; what is a court?; who are the judges? Analysis of a wide range of judicial decisions illustrates the political importance of courts in the U.S. and elsewhere.",""],"POL SCI 120":["POL SCI","Public Opinion","Theories concerning sources of public opinion, processes by which it is altered, organization of citizens' belief systems, and role of public opinion in government policy. Students analyze survey data as a research project.",""],"POL SCI 121A":["POL SCI","The American Presidency","Presents a comprehensive survey of the American presidency and considers the question of political power.",""],"POL SCI 121C":["POL SCI","U","Examines how voters evaluate political parties, candidates, and issues in electoral campaigns to reach their decisions. Numerous controversies concerning the degree of issue voting, sophistication of candidate evaluations, and the decline of political parties are discussed.",""],"POL SCI 121F":["POL SCI","Presidents Since World War II","Reviews the actions and character of presidents from Harry Truman through Bill Clinton.  Each week a different president is examined from a variety of perspectives.  Students are expected to write a substantial original research paper.","POL SCI 21A"],"POL SCI 121G":["POL SCI","American Public Policy","Focuses on the development and implementation of public policy in the United States. Lectures cover theoretical models of the policy process as well as significant problems facing contemporary American decision-makers.",""],"POL SCI 121HW":["POL SCI","Writing for the President of the United States","Imagines how White House staffers can help presidents with clear, focused, and effective writing. Through a variety of formats, students study, hone, and practice writing skills that will prove useful in and out of the White House.","POL SCI 21A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 122A":["POL SCI","American Metropolitan Politics","Explores the politics of urban and suburban America, including the policy making process; the exercise of political power; local politics, federalism and the problems of metropolitanism; and major policy problems facing urban areas.",""],"POL SCI 122B":["POL SCI","California Politics","Examines the structure and function of California government, traces historical development of political power, with constantly changing casts of power-brokers and seekers. Explores California exceptionalism and the roles played by the electorate, legislature, executive, and organized interests in policy making.",""],"POL SCI 122BW":["POL SCI","California Politics","Examines the structure and function of California government, traces historical development of political power, with constantly changing casts of power-brokers and seekers. Explores California exceptionalism and the roles played by the electorate, legislature, executive, and organized interests in policy making.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division writing requirement."],"POL SCI 123B":["POL SCI","Representation","Deals with classical theories of representation: issues of racial and political representation in U.S. legislatures and city councils; proportional representation models; and comparative election systems.","SOC SCI 3A or SOC SCI 10A or SOC SCI 10B"],"POL SCI 124A":["POL SCI","The Politics of Protest","Examines the Civil Rights, Black Power, and women's movements in relationship to the Asian American movement. Uses social movement theories to illuminate the cases, and the cases to critique and revise the theories.",""],"POL SCI 124B":["POL SCI","Latinos in U","Comparing the political issues facing Latino groups by examining their migration histories, voting behavior, nonelectoral participation, and policy issues.  Latino issues are examined on the national, state, and local levels, including formal representation, immigration, affirmative action, and language policy.",""],"POL SCI 124C":["POL SCI","Comparative Minority Politics","Examines the political experiences of Blacks, Latinos, and Asian Americans in the United States from roughly 1950 to the present. Focuses on how each group has pursued political empowerment via both conventional political channels and social movements.",""],"POL SCI 124E":["POL SCI","African American Politics","Examines politics of African Americans in order to gain a broader perspective of the American political process. Major developments in African American politics (including the civil rights movement, Black presidential bids), continuing problem of racism, responsiveness of key governing institutions.",""],"POL SCI 125A":["POL SCI","The United States Congress","Does the Congress do a good job of representing the American citizenry? Is it the most appropriate mechanism for the creation, resolution, and implementation of public policy.",""],"POL SCI 125CW":["POL SCI","Constitutional Convention","Analyzes the Constitution, its amendments, and periods of Constitutional reform as a foundation for a critical evaluation of the Constitution with an eye both to necessary reforms and to elements of the Constitution that should be maintained.","POL SCI 21A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 126C":["POL SCI","U","Examines selected immigration policy debates since the nineteenth century, rationale and consequences of immigration law since 1965, problems of administration, implementation and enforcement, impact of immigration policy on foreign relations, and contemporary debate regarding the future of U.S. policy.",""],"POL SCI 126D":["POL SCI","Urban Politics and Policy","Examines economic limits of cities and welfare policy. Addresses such issues as why are the poor concentrated in the central cities? Which anti-poverty programs will work best in cities? Which level of government can best combat poverty in the U.S.",""],"POL SCI 126F":["POL SCI","Politics of Animal Rights","Examines animal rights\/welfare movement's efforts to transform moral, practical, and legal standing of nonhuman animals in contemporary U.S. Explores intersection of racism, sexism, and speciesism informed by theories of race and ethnicity, including Asian American Studies.",""],"POL SCI 126G":["POL SCI","Sex, Drugs, and Rock and Roll: The Politics of Prohibition","Why and how does the U.S. government prohibit, regulate, or try to control sex, drugs, and rock and roll? Reveals the motivations and politically strategic decisions that underpin these governmental efforts.",""],"POL SCI 128BW":["POL SCI","Political Ideologies: The Way We View Our World","Politics has become divisive and ideological. But ideologies are poorly understood and have become mere labels for identifying friends and enemies. Course analyzes the nature of ideology, focusing on liberalism, conservatism, fascism, socialism, and contemporary \"liberation\" ideologies.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 128C":["POL SCI","Political Psychology","Examination of how psychological theory and research may be used to better understand political thought and behavior. Drawing on theories of learning, cognition, and personality, discusses such topics as the formation of political attitudes, and the process of political decision-making.",""],"POL SCI 129":["POL SCI","Special Topics in American Politics and Society","Studies in selected areas of American politics and society. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 130A":["POL SCI","Game Theory and Politics I","Introduction to game theory and a survey of its political applications. Examples of topics covered include voting in small committees, legislatures, and mass elections; interest group activities and environmental issues; institutional design, and the evolution of cooperative behavior.",""],"POL SCI 130B":["POL SCI","Game Theory and Politics II","More advanced game theory and its political applications, beginning where Game Theory and Politics I ends.  Examples of topics covered include revolutions; arms race; spatial models of party competition; political manipulation; political coalitions and their power.","POL SCI 130A or ECON 116A"],"POL SCI 131C":["POL SCI","Modern Political Theory","Examines major thinkers and intellectual movements in the political thought of the 17th and 18th centuries.",""],"POL SCI 131F":["POL SCI","20th Century Political Theory","Examines major thinkers and intellectual movements in the political thought of the 20th century.","POL SCI 31A"],"POL SCI 134F":["POL SCI","Social and Political Theory","Focus is on recent major work in social and political theory. An in-depth analysis of a relatively small body of writing. Authors discussed include Jurgen Habermas, Anthony Giddens, and Richard Rorty.",""],"POL SCI 135A":["POL SCI","Origins of Liberalism","Examines the ideals, social forces, and historical events that gave rise to liberal political theory. Topics include patriarchal authority, the divine right of kings, religious toleration, slavery, colonialism, political economy, the evolution of law, and tensions between liberty and equality.","POL SCI 31A"],"POL SCI 135B":["POL SCI","Just War Revisited","Examines the evolution of the doctrine of the just war across the history of Western political thought, the importance of changes in the doctrine and whether it applies today; examines international relations case studies to determine today's relevancy.",""],"POL SCI 136B":["POL SCI","Cannibals and Conquistadores: The Philosophy of the Other","Examines critically the notion of the \"other\" by looking at the philosophical challenges difference poses in the context of the European discovery of the New World. Seeks to understand the naissance of the concept of human rights and tolerance.",""],"POL SCI 136BW":["POL SCI","Cannibals and Conquistadores: The Philosophy of the Other","Examines critically the notion of the \"other\" by looking at the philosophical challenges difference poses in the context of the European discovery of the New World. Seeks to understand the naissance of the concept of human rights and tolerance.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 136E":["POL SCI","France and You: Trans-Atlantic Problems and Partnerships - Past, Present, Future","Co-taught by professors from UC and Sciences Po, French and UCI students are brought together in a virtual classroom. Students engage in joint projects on issues of global import: democratic fragility, race relations, international security, and climate change.",""],"POL SCI 137BW":["POL SCI","Types of Political Representation","Political representation plays an important role in democratic systems, but is elusive once examined closely.  Students delve into the concept and relate different views to political life. Half of the course is spent on writing instruction.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. "],"POL SCI 138A":["POL SCI","The Moral of the Story: Introductory Seminar in Ethics","Introduces major theories and classic texts in ethics, from Plato and Aristotelian virtue ethics to utilitarianism and Kant and contemporary moral psychology.",""],"POL SCI 138AW":["POL SCI","Moral of the Story: Introduction to Ethics","Focuses on how we learn about ethics from stories, in the form of fables, bedtime stories, religious stories, soap operas, television, and movies as adults. Students bring in stories that informed their own ethical development.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 138CW":["POL SCI","Ethics of Difference","Examines differences traditionally judged politically salient--race, ethnicity, religion, gender. Personal interviews with an elderly person encourage students to understand the social construction of difference and to reexamine their own attitudes by putting themselves in the place of another.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 138DW":["POL SCI","The Moral Life During War","Can people keep their humanity during war? What does the term humanity signify when simply surviving requires faith, courage, and desperation? When facing wartime brutality, must we abrogate morality? What does it mean to compose a moral life during war?.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 139":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Political Theory and Methods","Studies in selected areas of political theory and methods. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 141B":["POL SCI","International Political Economy","Examination of problems in global political-economic relations through competing conceptual lenses or grand theories: mercantilism, liberalism, and Marxism. Surveys North-North and North-South issues relating power and wealth.",""],"POL SCI 141C":["POL SCI","International Political Economy of East Asia","Integration of theoretical perspectives in international political economy with the study of economic development in East Asia, with special emphasis on regional integration.",""],"POL SCI 141E":["POL SCI","US Foreign Policy Toward Asia","U.S. policy toward the countries of East Asia: bilateral and regional security relationships, U.S. economic relations with the major Asian countries, the development of regional institutions, and human rights.",""],"POL SCI 142B":["POL SCI","The International Relations of East Asia","Surveys various aspects of relations between the nations of East Asia. Topics include the historical development of the region; current political and security relations, including the impact of the American military presence.",""],"POL SCI 142D":["POL SCI","U","Looks at changing international perspectives, policy responses, and military strategies of presidential administrations from Truman to Reagan. In assessing the motives and objectives of U.S. foreign policy leaders during the \"Cold War\" era, the concept of \"national interest\" is examined.",""],"POL SCI 142G":["POL SCI","US Coercive Diplomacy","Examines the theory of compellence and the U.S. practice of coercive diplomacy - the power to change behavior of other governments. Specific case examples: the Cuban missile crisis, bombing of North Vietnam, the Nicaraguan Contras, Desert Shield\/Desert Storm, and Libya.",""],"POL SCI 142J":["POL SCI","U","Explores political, economic, social, and cultural ties that bind Latin America to the United States. Focuses on U.S. intervention and Latin American response from early nineteenth century to present day. Case studies include Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, Chile, and Central America.",""],"POL SCI 143D":["POL SCI","East Asian Security","Provides an overview of issues in East Asian security including U.S.-China relations, economic interdependence, global supply chains, South China Sea, environmental cooperation, COVID-19, and others. Includes Oxford-style debates.",""],"POL SCI 143G":["POL SCI","Homeland Security    ","Examines the 9\/11 origins of the concept of homeland security; assess the evolution, structure, and operations of the Department of Homeland Security; critically examines the evolution of threat assessment to the U.S. and the utilization of risk management methodologies.",""],"POL SCI 144A":["POL SCI","Approaches to International Relations","Reviews theoretical and methodological approaches to the study of international relations using contending perspectives to analyze power and influence, capabilities, interdependence, reciprocity, international regimes, anarchy, cooperation, imperialism, and hegemony.",""],"POL SCI 146B":["POL SCI","Religion and World Politics","Examines the relationship between religion and world politics historically and today, focusing on connections with peace\/war, democracy, human rights, secularism(s), and globalization. Covers major debates, scholarship, concepts, and theories through class exercises, exams, and essays.","POL SCI 41A or INTL ST 11 or INTL ST 12 or REL STD 5A or REL STD 5B or REL STD 5C"],"POL SCI 147CW":["POL SCI","International Humanitarianism","Examines, analyzes, and evaluates the humanitarian phenomenon, the actors involved in it (including states, international organizations (IOs), and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)), the rise of a body of international humanitarian law, and the problems and debates associated with international humanitarianism today.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 147D":["POL SCI","International Organizations","Active learning course that examines origins, decision-making processes, activities, and evolution of leading international organizations (e.g. U.N., NATO, EU, AU, WTO, World Bank, IMF). Activities include drafting reforms, applying theory, assessing dysfunctions, and participating in U.N. negotiation simulations.",""],"POL SCI 147E":["POL SCI","Critical Investigations into Humanitarianism in Africa","Explores the complex phenomenon of aid to Africa (emergency and development aid), and the representational, cultural, historical, and other reasons why some participants and many observers critique it. Students occasionally engage with peers and faculty in African institutions.",""],"POL SCI 149":["POL SCI","Special Topics in International Relations","Studies in selected areas of international relations. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 151B":["POL SCI","Political Power in Contemporary China","Analyzes the sources of political power in contemporary China, including historical legitimacy, political institutions, and Chinese Communist Party power. Identifies challenges to the CCP's rule and rising socio-political issues such as mass protest, censorship, and the environment.",""],"POL SCI 151C":["POL SCI","Chinese Politics: Policy, Leadership, and Change","Examines major policies from 1949 to the present, and considers the changing role of the Communist Party and its shifting treatment of various social groups; the era of Mao Zedong, reforms under Deng, and post-Deng politics.",""],"POL SCI 151H":["POL SCI","Voting and Political Manipulation","Introduction to social choice and cooperative games. Topics include majority rule, types of voting methods, apportionment and proportional representation, agenda manipulation, coalition formation, voting power, political consequences of electoral laws.",""],"POL SCI 152K":["POL SCI","Immigration Politics in Western Europe","Examines immigration politics in Western Europe, analyzing trends and policy from the postwar period through to today. Topics include citizenship, immigrant integration, asylum, the far-right, and a rotating focus on contemporary issues, e.g., terrorism, Islamophobia.",""],"POL SCI 153E":["POL SCI","Human Rights","Examines the causes and consequences of human rights violations with a focus on Latin America. What are human rights? When and where are they violated? What political mechanisms are available to deal with human rights problems? How effective are they.",""],"POL SCI 153G":["POL SCI","Cuban Society and Revolution","Explores the causes, development, and legacy of the 1959 Revolution. Themes include economic dependency, democracy, race, gender, culture, and the always volatile relations between Cuba and the United States.",""],"POL SCI 154C":["POL SCI","Comparative Politics: Four Nations, Three Continents","Studies four countries in a comparative fashion: their respective political histories and cultural traditions; actual differences among their superficially similar party, parliamentary, and executive institutions; contemporary economic policy. The countries represent three continents and varying levels of economic development.",""],"POL SCI 154F":["POL SCI","Peoples and Cultures of Post-Soviet Eurasia","Examines the cultures and political conflicts of the more than 130 indigenous ethnic groups in the European and Asian territories of the former U.S.S.R. Emphasis is on the theoretical issues of ethnicity, nationalism, and conflict management.",""],"POL SCI 154G":["POL SCI","Conflict Resolution in Cross-Cultural Perspective","Examines theories of conflict management. Analyzes how conflict is mitigated in diverse cultures: at the interpersonal level, between groups, and on the international scale. Students discuss readings, hear from conflict management practitioners, and simulate negotiations.",""],"POL SCI 154J":["POL SCI","Jews and Power","Examines the relationship between the Jewish people and political power over a 3500 year period. How have Jews preserved their communal interests and personal safety? How have they defined the proper relationship of the people to political authority.",""],"POL SCI 154KW":["POL SCI","US Government in Comparative Perspective","Introduction to the United States in comparative perspective, covering general features of the United States and other countries, such as institutional design and policy choices. Addresses the debates about American exceptionalism and American decline.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 155C":["POL SCI","Organizations","How bureaucracies, formal organizations, and voluntary associations work, how\/why they grow, and where they are going. History and structure of organizational rationality; dynamics of organized groups; behavior in organizations; limits of bureaucratization and attempts to overcome these limits through decentralization.",""],"POL SCI 156A":["POL SCI","Political Participation","The ways in which people in various political systems take part in politics, especially in activities directed toward affecting outcomes.  Who is active, what they do, why they do it, and what difference it makes.",""],"POL SCI 156D":["POL SCI","Protests, Movements, and Revolutions","A survey of models of collective action drawn from sociology, economics, psychology, and political science. Focus on areas such as social movements, strikes, crowd psychology, cults, fads, fashions, public opinion, and symbolic and mythical elements in collective culture.","SOCIOL 1 or POL SCI 11A or ECON 1"],"POL SCI 157B":["POL SCI","International Divided Cities","Investigates urban divisions in international cities where deep-seated nationalistic ethnic differences create pressures for intergroup conflicts, autonomy, or territorial separation, and can incite violence. Urban political polarization as it is manifest in the urban setting.",""],"POL SCI 158D":["POL SCI","Introduction to Contemporary Middle East Politics","An overview of basic issues that shape the politics of the Middle East and North Africa. Themes include implication of the colonization era, nation-state formation, inter-Arab relations, nationalism, Arab-Israel conflict, Islamic resurgence, and more.",""],"POL SCI 159":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Comparative Politics","Studies in selected areas of comparative politics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 169":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Race and Ethnicity Politics","Studies in selected areas of race and ethnicity. Topics vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 171AW":["POL SCI","Law and Society","Law and its various roles in society. The nature and meaning of law; legality and power in the American system; law as a mechanism for social change; the role of law in dispute processing, social control, compliance with judicial decisions.","POL SCI 71A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 171D":["POL SCI","American Constitutional Law","American constitutional interpretation of cases involving separation of powers, federal-state relations, rights of property, free expression, privacy, criminal due process, political participation, and equality. Includes legal research methods, development of judicial review, legal reasoning, and impact of Supreme Court decisions.","POL SCI 71A"],"POL SCI 171F":["POL SCI","Law in the Twenty-First Century","Examines the complex relationship between law, the social sciences, and modern society.  Lectures explore such issues as the interplay between technology and constitutional rights, the impact of science on law, and the evolving roles of attorneys and judges.",""],"POL SCI 171G":["POL SCI","Legal Implications of the Drug Trade","Examines United States policy to combat domestic and international narcotics trafficking. Analyzes the national drug policy and program implementation by federal and state agencies. Considers the effects of these policies on our individual constitutional rights and the criminal justice system.",""],"POL SCI 172A":["POL SCI","International Law","Examination of the origin, changing structure, application of international law, and the role of legal norms in regulating the behavior of states and maintaining international order.","POL SCI 71A"],"POL SCI 174A":["POL SCI","Civil Liberties","Political analysis of selected Supreme Court cases involving claims under the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth Amendment. Topics include:  race, sex, and other forms of discrimination; criminal justice; privacy; freedom of speech and related claims.","POL SCI 71A"],"POL SCI 174C":["POL SCI","U","Overview and analysis of the role played by the U.S. Supreme Court in the American political system. Judicial review, appointment of justices, judicial activism and judicial restraint, process of case selection, court deliberation, land decision-making, impact of Supreme Court decisions.",""],"POL SCI 174CW":["POL SCI","U","Overview and analysis of the role played by the U.S. Supreme Court in the American political system. Judicial review, appointment of justices, judicial activism and judicial restraint, process of case selection, court deliberation, land decision-making, impact of Supreme Court decisions.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 179":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Public Law","Studies in selected areas of public law. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI H180D":["POL SCI","Honors Seminar in Political Science","Course for students enrolled in the Honors Program in Political Science.","Only open to students in the Political Science Honors Program."],"POL SCI H182A":["POL SCI","Honors Thesis Workshop","A weekly seminar\/workshop to facilitate the exchange of ideas and research strategies among students and to review their progress in writing the thesis.",""],"POL SCI 190":["POL SCI","Senior Thesis","Thesis research with Political Science faculty.",""],"POL SCI 190W":["POL SCI","Senior Thesis","Thesis research with Political Science faculty.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"POL SCI 197":["POL SCI","Field Study","Field study with Political Science faculty.",""],"POL SCI 198":["POL SCI","Directed Group Study","Directed group study with Political Science faculty.",""],"POL SCI 199":["POL SCI","Independent Study","Independent study or research with a Political Science faculty member.",""],"POL SCI 209A":["POL SCI","Study of Democracy Colloquium","Skills critical to professional success. Students learn and practice professional presentation skills, develop substantive knowledge in the field by attending talks and panels, and interact with scholars and professionals in the field.",""],"POL SCI 209B":["POL SCI","Study of Democracy Colloquium","This colloquium teaches students skills critical to professional success. Students learn and practice professional presentation skills and develop substantive knowledge in the field by attending talks and panels and interacting with scholars and professionals in the field.",""],"POL SCI 209C":["POL SCI","Study of Democracy Colloquium ","This colloquium teaches students skills critical to professional success. Students learn and practice professional presentation skills and develop substantive knowledge in the field by attending talks and panels and interacting with scholars and professionals in the field.",""],"POL SCI 210":["POL SCI","Colloquium","Doctoral training requires more than learning substantive debates and research methods; it also requires students learn professional practices, routines, and expectations.  This workshop offers students a mix of professional development, outside speakers, and discussions regarding research with departmental faculty.",""],"POL SCI 212B":["POL SCI","Ethics Workshop","Students find an important question in ethics, search literature to assess topic's importance, post question to be researched, propose method of analysis and type of data, analyze data, and note how their works contribute to knowledge in the field.",""],"POL SCI 219":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Politics and Society","Current research in politics and society.",""],"POL SCI 221A":["POL SCI","Public Policy","Explores different approaches to public policy analysis, the diverse conceptions of the goals and objectives that should be served by policy, and the appropriate role of the policy analyst.  Policy consequences are traced to indirect and subtle incentives and disincentives.",""],"POL SCI 222B":["POL SCI","Public Opinion","Introduction to the study of U.S. public opinion. Provides an overview of the theories regarding opinion formation, the methodologies employed, and the role of public opinion in democratic governments.",""],"POL SCI 223A":["POL SCI","Theories of Power and Empowerment","Studies different ways of thinking about power and its uses. Explores theories of power that inform various notions of empowerment, including resistance, participatory democracy, and workplace empowerment.",""],"POL SCI 229":["POL SCI","Special Topics in American Politics","Current research in American Politics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 231A":["POL SCI","Political Epistemology","Focuses on fundamental issues of knowledge in the study of politics, especially interconnections and tensions between politics and knowledge.  Counts as the Field Seminar in Political Theory.",""],"POL SCI 231B":["POL SCI","Theories of Textual Interpretation","Examination of different theories of textual interpretation, including Straussian, hermeneutical, poststructuralist, feminist, postcolonial, and critical race theories. Key questions include: How does one go about the task of interpreting texts? What makes one interpretation better or more insightful than another.",""],"POL SCI 238D":["POL SCI","The Moral Life During War","Can people keep their humanity during war? What does the term humanity signify when simply surviving requires faith, courage, and desperation? When facing wartime brutality must we abrogate morality? What does it mean to compose a moral life during war?.",""],"POL SCI 239":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Political Theory","Current research in political theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 241B":["POL SCI","Seminar in International Relations Theory","Overview of the major theories guiding research and scholarship in international relations.  Focus on major conceptual approaches (realism, neoliberalism, marxism) and levels of analysis (systemic, state, and subnational), as well as on methodological\/epistemological debates engulfing the field.",""],"POL SCI 241E":["POL SCI","Research Design in International Relations","Surveys research design primarily through substantive readings in international relations. The purpose is to familiarize students with choices\/dilemmas relevant to IR-specific research. Students at various stages in the graduate program and with different methodological orientations are welcome.",""],"POL SCI 249":["POL SCI","Special Topics in International Relations","Current research in international relations. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 252":["POL SCI","Introduction to Voting Theory","Introduction to voting models. Substantive topics include majority rule, voting methods and their properties, apportionment and proportional representation, agenda manipulation, coalition formation, voting power, political consequences of electoral laws.",""],"POL SCI 252G":["POL SCI","Theories and Practice of Migration and Citizenship","Examines theories of migration and citizenship. In examining these themes, the course includes discussion of theory development, multi-method testing, and case study comparison with a focus on Western Europe and other advanced democratic receiving states.",""],"POL SCI 254A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Game Theory","Introduction to non-cooperative games.  The prisoner's dilemma, Nash equilibrium, sequential games, subgame perfection. Applications include collective action, agenda-setter models, spatial competition of political parties, models of revolution and arms race.",""],"POL SCI 259":["POL SCI","Special Topics in Comparative Politics","Current research in comparative politics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"POL SCI 260B":["POL SCI","Political Participation","Examines theoretical approaches to the explanation of the pattern of participation and consideration of the results of empirical studies of such activity by mass publics (mainly in Europe and North America).  Addresses issues in both comparative politics and political behavior.",""],"POL SCI 273A":["POL SCI","Advanced Qualitative Methods: Analyzing Qualitative Data","Introduction to the theory and practice of analyzing qualitative data. Students must have already learned about data collection and research design for qualitative research and must have qualitative data they can analyze.",""],"POL SCI 276":["POL SCI","Predictive Models in Social Sciences","Basic numeracy (logarithms, fixed-exponent and exponential formats, graphing). Models based on ignorance and logical constraints. Logical quantitative models (how things should be) to complement and guide statistical analysis (how things are).",""],"POL SCI 285A":["POL SCI","Introduction to Political Psychology I","Reviews theoretical questions regarding the relationship between the analytical and normative and the polity. Considers relationships between the analytical and normative concerns of psychology and political science, addressing empirical literatures on political socialization, ideology and public opinion, identity and nationality.",""],"POL SCI 290":["POL SCI","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Political Science faculty.",""],"POL SCI 299":["POL SCI","Independent Study","Independent research with Political Science faculty.",""],"PORTUG 243":["PORTUG","Studies in Luso-Brazilian Literature and Culture","Critical analysis of selected literary works from Portugal and\/or Brazil. Contextualizes the works within their historical and literary specificity, and discusses pertinent theoretical issues raised by them. Taught in Portuguese.","Reading knowledge of Portuguese."],"PSCI 9":["PSCI","Introduction to Psychology","Introduction to field of psychology, addressing the application of scientific methods to the study of human development, learning, memory, problem solving, perception, biological mechanisms, emotions and motivation, personality, psychopathology, and effects of diverse social and cultural contexts on human behavior.",""],"PSCI 11A":["PSCI","Psychology Fundamentals","Designed to provide freshman with an in-depth survey of general psychology. Topics include biological bases of behavior, sensation, perception, cognition, development, personality, psychopathology, and social psychology.",""],"PSCI 11B":["PSCI","Psychology Fundamentals","Designed to provide freshmen with an in-depth survey of general psychology. Topics include biological bases of behavior, sensation, perception, cognition, development, personality, psychopathology, and social psychology.",""],"PSCI 11C":["PSCI","Psychology Fundamentals","Designed to provide freshman with an in-depth survey of general psychology. Topics include biological bases of behavior, sensation, perception, cognition, development, personality, psychopathology, and social psychology.",""],"PSCI 100":["PSCI","Special Topics in Social Behavior","Course content varies with interest of instructor.",""],"PSCI 101D":["PSCI","Life Span Developmental Psychology","Addresses the major issues, concepts, and methods of life span developmental psychology. The fundamental theories, distinctive methods, and the physical, perceptual, cognitive, social, motivational, and emotional development for each developmental phase of the life course are considered.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 102C":["PSCI","Abnormal Psychology","Survey of disorders organized by the diagnostic categories of the American Psychiatric Association. Interdisciplinary orientation combines environmental, psychological, and organic perspectives on etiology and treatment.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C) and SE 10."],"PSCI 103H":["PSCI","Health Psychology","Theory and research are considered as they contribute to an understanding of the role of psychological processes in health and illness. The distinction between prevention and treatment of illness is established, and a variety of psychosocial interventions are elaborated.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 104S":["PSCI","Social Animal: An Introduction to Social Psychology","Theories and research exploring social behavior and social influences on behavior. Topics include methods of social research, attitude formation and change, social perception, the social self, stereotypes and prejudice, conformity, obedience, altruism, aggression, interpersonal relationships and love, and group behavior.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 110D":["PSCI","Infant Development","Study of human development from conception through the first two years of life, covering processes and events in the domains of physical, social, and cognitive development.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 111D":["PSCI","Child Development","Examines social, emotional, and intellectual growth and development between the ages of 2 and 12 years.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 111W":["PSCI","Advanced Research Methods","For students planning to conduct senior research projects or apply to graduate school in social research fields. Topics include reviewing literature, preparing a research proposal, protecting human subjects, citing scholarly work, building measures, estimating sample size, interview and presentation skills.","SE 10 and SE 13. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PSCI 112D":["PSCI","Adolescent Development","Examines current research on the biological, social, and cultural contexts of adolescent development. Topics include the impacts of puberty, adolescents' decision-making competencies, changes in family and peer relationships, identity development, and psychosocial problems such as depression and problem behavior.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 113D":["PSCI","Adult Development","Examines why and how we change (with attention to gains as well as losses) from ages 18-65 and the nature and sources of continuity over time. Topics include physical and intellectual functioning, personality, coping strategies, and social roles and relationships.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 115D":["PSCI","Cognitive Development","Examines theories on nature of cognitive development. Discusses behaviorist theories on role of the environment including those of Vygotsky and Piaget, and recent evidence from cognitive psychologists stressing the importance of knowledge and skills within specific domains.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 116D":["PSCI","Human Development and Cross-Cultural Perspectives","Human development in diverse cultures (e.g., Asian, American, and African). Special emphasis on East-West contrasts and when East meets West (i.e., Asian-American experiences). Topics include parenting, family relations, language and cognition, schooling and academic achievement, and morality.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B) and SE 10."],"PSCI 118D":["PSCI","Human Sexuality","A broad survey of human sexuality encompassing genetic factors, physiological and anatomical development, customary and atypical forms of behavior, reproductive processes, and cultural determinants.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 121D":["PSCI","Work and Family","Effects of employment and unemployment on mental health and marital quality; effects of work on parenting and child development; corporate and social policies for \"families that work\"; young adults' decision-making about work and family.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 126D":["PSCI","Development of Motivation Across the Lifespan","Introduces major concepts in life-span development of motivation and self-regulation, and discusses exemplar empirical findings pertaining to these concepts during the various phases of life. Students participate in discussion, present findings from research articles, and write a paper.",""],"PSCI 127D":["PSCI","Attachment Relationships","Students learn about the development of attachment-related needs throughout development, as well as the links between attachment and emotion, psychopathology and treatment. Lectures emphasize classic as well as cutting-edge research and are supplemented by primary source readings.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSYC 7A or PSCI 11A or PSYC 9A or PSCI 11B or PSYC 9B."],"PSCI 136H":["PSCI","Behavioral Medicine","Examines biobehavioral aspects of health and illness, focusing on how stress contributes to or exacerbates disease processes. Background information on psychosomatic medicine and stress models and detailed examination of specific organ systems emphasizing the reactivity of these systems to stress.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 137H":["PSCI","Human Stress","Stress as a multidisciplinary topic. Biological, psychological, and sociological approaches to adaptation-related disorders. Effects of acute and chronic stress on emotions, physiology, and behavior. Methods of stress assessment, stress reduction, and intervention.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 138H":["PSCI","Child Health Psychology","Exploration of psychological antecedents, concomitants, and consequences of medical illnesses in children. Children's beliefs about health, illness, and medication; the role of stress; coronary-prone behavior; therapeutic adherence and physician-patient interaction; coping with chronic illness; effects of child's illness on family.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 9C or PSYC 7A) and SE 10."],"PSCI 139H":["PSCI","Clinical Sport Psychology","An interdisciplinary introduction to clinical sport psychology, that includes, among other things, an introduction to psychopathology in sport; plus the use of psychological skills training, including anxiety reduction techniques, visualization, self-efficacy, coping skills, concentration, and goal-setting in sports.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 140H":["PSCI","The Hardiness Approach to Stress Management","New development within psychology involving a combination of motivations and skills that extensive research has shown enhances performance, conduct, morale, stamina, and health. Combines study of hardiness research with strategies for improvement of personal hardiness through a series of exercises.",""],"PSCI 141H":["PSCI","Clinical Health Psychology","Behavioral role in etiology, treatment, and prevention of certain diseases. Behavioral intervention including biofeedback, stress-, pain-management, health habit counseling, and other skills to assist patients make cognitive, emotional, and behavioral changes needed to cope with disease or achieve better health.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 142H":["PSCI","Introduction to Interdisciplinary Salivary Bioscience ","Introduction to the integration of salivary analytes into developmental, social, behavioral, and health sciences. Lectures cover theoretical perspectives; oral fluid as a biological specimen; saliva collection and study design; basics of salivary assay methods; and research findings across multiple fields.",""],"PSCI 143H":["PSCI","The Science and Practice of Wellness and Resilience ","Wellness is a common, but elusive goal. Covers the history, theory, psychology, and behavioral science behind skills for wellness and resilience. Provides opportunities to practice the strategies to help further understanding of the behavioral nature of each of the areas.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 150C":["PSCI","Clinical Psychology","Overview of theories, assessment techniques, research methodologies, and intervention approaches in clinical psychology. Psychodynamic, behavioral, humanistic, and cognitive perspectives are examined along with ethical and professional issues.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C) and PSCI 102C."],"PSCI 152C":["PSCI","Clinical Child Psychology","Examines research and theory concerning childhood psychopathology behavior disorders. Diagnosis and assessment, early identification of high-risk children, fears and phobias, antisocial behavior, childhood psychoses, autism, depression, attention deficit\/hyperactivity disorders, and ethical and policy implications of identifying children who are different.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 153C":["PSCI","Developmental Psychopathology","Research and theory of origins, course, and outcomes of disordered behavior. Continuity and change in patterns of behavior; environmental challenges and buffers; stress\/competence in children; vulnerable\/invincible children; children of mentally ill parents; families at risk; childhood antecedents of adult disorders.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C) and SE 10."],"PSCI 154C":["PSCI","Cognitive Behavior Therapy","Presentation of principles and procedures of therapeutic interventions based on cognitive-behavior methods. Cognitive factors in learning, emotional arousal, psychological disorder, and psychotherapy reviewed. Introduces the application of cognitive behavioral methods to problems of depression, anxiety, anger, pain, and impulsivity.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSYC 7A or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11C) or (PSYC 9A and PSYC 9C)."],"PSCI 155C":["PSCI","Child Therapies","Examines research methodologies, empirical data, and implications of diverse intervention strategies. Primary topics include psychotherapy process and outcome, family therapies, behavioral intervention, cognitive behavior modification, pediatric psychopharmacology, and ethical and social policy implications of intervening in other people's lives.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 156C":["PSCI","Forensic Psychology: Advanced Seminar","Focuses on the psychology of criminal offending, particularly violent behavior. Examines violence, sexual offending, and mental disorder related to crime with regard to clinical assessment and treatment; mental health services within forensic institutions.","(PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C) and PSCI 102C and (PSCI 178S or CLS C149)"],"PSCI 159C":["PSCI","Clinical Neuropsychology","Introduces key concepts and case studies in clinical neuropsychology. Instruction focuses on neuropsychological concepts underlying brain-behavior relationships and their assessment in clinical case examples; and psychological science as relates to brain injuries\/diseases impacting higher mental functions (e.g., memory).",""],"PSCI 160C":["PSCI","Clinical Neuroscience","An introduction to the neuroclinical bases of human behavior, including neuropsychological approaches to mental disorders. Also includes case formulations, research articles, therapeutic approaches, and other discussions related to select psychopathology and other neurobehavioral topics.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSYC 7A or PSCI 11A or PSYC 9A or BIOL 99."],"PSCI 161C":["PSCI","Forensic Psychology  ","Forensic psychology is the interface between clinical psychology and the law. Emphasizes clinically relevant legal topics (insanity defense; competency to stand trial) and includes critical thinking about issues that arise when psychologists are involved in legal proceedings.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSCI 11C."],"PSCI 162C":["PSCI","Psychodynamic Studies","Introduction to contemporary psychodynamic studies. Emphasis on clinical concepts associated with psychodynamic psychotherapy, including unconscious determinants of behavior, typical defenses, life experiences, and techniques. Exploration of links between psychodynamic-oriented psychotherapy and other disciplines (e.g., psychology, music, medicine, neuroscience, film).","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 163C":["PSCI","Human  Neuropsychology","A survey of human brain disorders using a clinical case study approach to illustrate fundamental issues in studying brain and behavior. Topics include sensory deficits, attentional neglect, amnesia, cortical organization, clinical psychopathology, and more.","BIOL N110 or BIOL N115A or PSYC 9A or PSCI 11A"],"PSCI 164C":["PSCI","Addiction","Designed for those with an interest in the nature and treatment of addiction. Focuses on the etiology and treatment of addiction, but does not prepare students to treat substance abuse disorders.","Recommended: (PSCI 11A or PSYC 9A) and (PSCI 11B or PSYC 9B) and (PSCI 11C or PSYC 9C) and PSCI 102C."],"PSCI 165C":["PSCI","Adult Psychopathology","Advanced course in abnormal psychology, focusing on adult psychopathology. Covers historical and fundamental issues about psychiatric disorders, clinical research on disorders of anxiety, PTSD, mood, psychoses, personality, and dementia, and their biopsychosocial features, and attends to assessment and treatment.","Recommended: PSCI 102C."],"PSCI 166S":["PSCI","Chicano\/Latino Families","Introduction to the research, literature, and issues surrounding the topic of Chicano\/Latino families including cultural history, contemporary issues, organization of family, traditions, lifestyles, values, beliefs, generational differences, gender issues, ethnic identity, evolution of demographic patterns, current economic and political standings.",""],"PSCI 167C":["PSCI","Biological Psychology","Introduces the principal theories, concepts, phenomena, and methods of biological psychology, the study of the effects of biological systems and processes on the behavior of individuals which integrates knowledge from neuroscience, cellular biology, psychology, and development.",""],"PSCI 168C":["PSCI","Personality Disorders","The history of personality disorder classification; defining characteristics of each disorder; the causes, courses, and outcomes of personality disorders; and information regarding assessment, prevention, and treatments of these disorders.","PSCI 11C or PSYC 9C"],"PSCI 170S":["PSCI","Personality","Comparison of the major theories of personality. Provides a frame of reference for understanding lifestyles, development, maturity, and psychopathology. Emerging research themes are used to identify promising lines of personality theorizing.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 171S":["PSCI","Environmental Psychology","Impact of the physical environment on individual and group behavior. Three basic concerns examined: (a) environmental determinants of behavior at the individual and interpersonal level; (b) social planning and urban design; (c) methodological approaches to the study of environmental issues.",""],"PSCI 173S":["PSCI","Social Relationships","Examines major issues, concepts, and methods in the scientific study of social relationships. Topics include relationship formation and dissolution, friendships and love relationships, loneliness, bereavement, societal influences on close relationships, significance of close relationships for health and well-being.","Recommended: SE 10 and (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C)."],"PSCI 174S":["PSCI","Error and Bias in Social Judgement","Examines how people encode, reason about, and remember social information and explores how biases and shortcomings in social perception, judgment, and memory are central to understanding both effective social functioning and many forms of maladaptive behavior and social conflict.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 178S":["PSCI","Violence in Society","Current theory and research on aggression; anger and violence as problems in individual and social functioning. Process and functions of anger examined with regard to normal behavior and psychopathology. The determinants, prevalence, and implications of violence in society are analyzed.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 179S":["PSCI","Cultural Psychology","An examination of culture's influence on human minds. Topics include culture's impact on perception, cognition, motivation, emotion, moral reasoning, communication, and health. Addresses cultural psychology's methods, history, and place within psychology and related fields.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9B or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 183S":["PSCI","Social Epidemiology","Overviews evidence linking environmental factors to mental and physical disorders including such variables as socioeconomic status, income inequality, work stress, job loss, social capital, location, and other demographic characteristics. Measurement and research design issues of both individual and aggregate levels.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9C) and SE 10 and SE 13."],"PSCI 184S":["PSCI","Positive Psychology  ","The field of positive psychology focuses on what is right and positive about people and institutions. Introduces findings associated with human strengths and positive emotions, and provides clinical and personal applications and implications.",""],"PSCI 185S":["PSCI","Industrial-Organizational Psychology","Examines the application of social psychology to organizational settings. Topics include motivation of workers, group decision-making, leadership styles, career management, and organizational development.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11A or PSCI 11B or PSCI 11C or PSYC 7A or PSYC 9A or PSYC 9B or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 187S":["PSCI","Psychology of Inequality","Focuses on the psychological dimensions of poverty, wealth, and economic inequality.","Recommended: (PSCI 11C or PSYC 9C) and PSCI 104S."],"PSCI 188S":["PSCI","Evolutionary Psychology","Understanding our evolutionary origins is critical to truly understanding the complexities of human psychology. Explores how Darwinian principles, applied to both genes and culture, can help us understand not just how the mind works, but why.","Recommended: PSCI 11C or PSYC 9C."],"PSCI 190":["PSCI","Applied Statistics in Social and Behavioral Research","Covers statistical techniques used to describe and make generalizations about phenomena represented by data. Hands-on experience in data analysis and interpretation using statistical software (SPSS, STATA) is emphasized. Topics include data visualization, ANOVA, multiple regression, and categorical data analyses.","SE 13"],"PSCI 192B":["PSCI","The Science and Practice of Compassion","Explores the latest scientific research on compassion and its correlates, and considers practical strategies for increasing compassion in everyday life. Students discover how cutting-edge research is yielding insights into kindness, empathy, altruism, and compassion.",""],"PSCI 192Q":["PSCI","Chicano\/Latino Social Psychology","Examines theories, research, and major issues of relevance to understanding social psychological processes in Chicano\/Latino populations. Topics include social development, cultural orientations, gender and sexuality, close relationships, happiness and well-being, stereotyping, prejudice and discrimination, and mental and physical health.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PSCI 192S":["PSCI","Health and the Latino Paradox","Examines research and theories concerning the physical and mental health of U.S. Latino populations. Contemporary accounts, health care implications, and new directions for understanding sources of risks and resilience for health in Latino populations are evaluated and discussed.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PSCI 192T":["PSCI","Cognition and Learning in Educational Settings","Exploration of historical foundations of cognitive psychology and cognitive development, cognitive neuroscience in education, complex cognition, individual differences, and cognitive foundations of learning.",""],"PSCI 192U":["PSCI","Psychology of Learning, Abilities, and Intelligence","Overview of classic positions on the mind, human abilities, and intelligence, especially as related to academic achievement. Contrasting views: psychometric versus information processing; experimental versus correlational research.","Recommended: PSYC 7A or PSCI 9 or PSCI 11A or PSCI 11B or PSCI 11C."],"PSCI 192V":["PSCI","Language and Literacy","Addresses the linguistic principles and processes that underlie oral and written language proficiency. Emphasis is on how to use phonology, morphology, orthography, semantics, syntax, and pragmatics to support literacy and oral language development for K-12 students.",""],"PSCI 192X":["PSCI","Introduction to Positive Psychology in Education","Positive psychology is a recent focus area within the field of psychology that explores what is positive, creative, and fulfilling in human behavior. It is the scientific study of well-being and flourishing.",""],"PSCI 193B":["PSCI","Juvenile Delinquency","Patterns of delinquent behavior, theories that explain behavior, current research aimed at enhancing exploratory power. Attempts to prevent and control delinquency are put in historical perspective. Development of the current juvenile justice system and evolution of modern juvenile law.",""],"PSCI 193C":["PSCI","Social Control of Delinquency","Assumes familiarity with theories of delinquency, the juvenile justice system, and elements of juvenile law. Explores socio-historical origins and evolution of juvenile justice, current research and policy on delinquency prevention and treatment, and future directions of law, policy, and practice.","Recommended: CLS C109."],"PSCI 193E":["PSCI","Psychology and the Law","Psychological assumptions of the American legal system and mental health aspects of provision of criminal justice services. Civil commitment, insanity defense, competence to stand trial, jury selection, eyewitness identification. Use of police, courts, correctional institutions in prevention of behavior disorder.",""],"PSCI 193F":["PSCI","Family Law","Examines legal issues surrounding marriage, cohabitation, divorce, child custody and support, adoption, and the rights of parents and children in the family context. The findings of social science research are used to illuminate the legal issues.",""],"PSCI 193G":["PSCI","Eyewitness Testimony","Faulty eyewitness testimony is a major cause of wrongful convictions. Covers the fast-growing topic of eyewitness testimony and memory for real-world events, both how psychologists study eyewitness capacity, and how the legal system has dealt with eyewitness issues.","SE 10"],"PSCI 196":["PSCI","Research Seminar in Psychological Science ","Special topics research seminar. Content varies with interest of instructor. Capstone seminar for students who have conducted research with, or have a background in, the research topics of the PSCI faculty member offering this seminar in a given quarter.","PSCI 11C"],"PSCI C200":["PSCI","Evidence-Based Treatments","Presents empirically-supported treatment approaches and professional strategies for the practice of them. Covers cognitive-behavior therapy, acceptance and commitment therapy, dialectical behavior therapy, mindfulness meditation, exposure and response prevention, parent-child interaction therapy and their application to various clinical disorders.",""],"PSCI P200":["PSCI","Introduction to Legal and Forensic Psychology ","Familiarizes students with the interrelated fields of psychology, law, and forensic studies. Emphasizes clinically relevant legal topics (insanity defense; competency to stand trial) and includes critical thinking about issues that arise when psychologists are involved in legal proceedings.",""],"PSCI C201":["PSCI","Clinical Assessment and Interviewing","Prepares students to conduct clinical interviews, which are the building blocks for psychotherapy and clinical research. Develops basic skills of interviewing and covers how to conduct the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 Disorders and how to make differential diagnoses.",""],"PSCI P201":["PSCI","Research Methods in Psychology","In-depth examination of the conceptualization of research problems and linkages between theory and the design of appropriate strategies for empirical research in psychological science. Topics include experimental and quasi-experimental designs, reliability and validity of measurement and non-experimental procedures.",""],"PSCI C202":["PSCI","Cognitive and Neuropsychological Assessment","Provides empirical background and introductory skills for students to begin supervised cognitive and neuropsychological assessment practice in a professional, ethical, competent, culturally sensitive manner. Administration, scoring, and interpreting standardized cognitive assessment measures and neuropsychological assessment measures. Neuropsychological disorders and anomalies.",""],"PSCI P202":["PSCI","Data Analysis and Statistics ","Statistical techniques to facilitate inferences in psychological research, including fundamentals of statistical inference and methods for analyzing data.",""],"PSCI C203":["PSCI","Professional Issues and Ethics in Clinical Psychology","Examines professional guidelines and ethical principles in clinical psychology research, assessment, and treatment, with an emphasis on the American Psychological Association Code of Ethics for Psychologists. Helps students develop awareness of ethical issues arising in clinical research and practice.",""],"PSCI P203":["PSCI","Big Data Analytics for the Social Sciences I","A practical lecture and lab course for learning how to engage with big data in various forms and use data science techniques (e.g., data reduction, NLP) to analyze and visualize data for research purposes.","SE 264A and SE 264B"],"PSCI C204":["PSCI","Practicum in Clinical Psychology","Clinical work at on-campus or off-campus clinical practice sites, such as hospitals and clinics, supervised by a licensed clinical psychologist, in addition to the students' faculty advisor.",""],"PSCI P204":["PSCI","Adolescence","Considers pubertal and cognitive changes and their social consequences; the family, peer group, school, and cultural contexts in which adolescence is embedded; and selected psychosocial issues including autonomy, identity, health, and well-being.",""],"PSCI C205":["PSCI","History and Systems","Surveys ideas of major figures in the history of psychology, from pre-Socratic Greek philosophers to psychologists active prior to the middle of the 20th century. Provides an appreciation of the forces (intellectual, cultural, scientific) that have shaped modern psychology.",""],"PSCI P206":["PSCI","Big Data Analytics for the Social Sciences II","A practical lecture and lab course for learning how to engage with big data in various forms and use data science techniques (e.g., data reduction, NLP) to analyze and visualize data for research purposes.","SE 264A and SE 264B and PSCI P203"],"PSCI C208":["PSCI","Family and Systems Therapy","Presents family\/systems therapy as a treatment modality, emphasizing the interdependence of theory, practice, and research. Examines various therapeutic models (e.g., structural, strategic, multi-generational, cognitive-behavioral, attachment, and narrative approaches) and evidence relevant to effectiveness and hypothesized mechanisms of change.",""],"PSCI P208":["PSCI","Research Methods","In-depth examination of issues relevant to designing and evaluating research in psychological science. Topics address casual inference, ethical issues surrounding the responsible conduct of research, experimental and quasi-experimental designs, reliability and validity of measurement, and non-experimental procedures.",""],"PSCI C209":["PSCI","Clinical Psychology Research Designs and Methods","Reviews major issues in conducting scientific research and important methodological issues in psychological clinical science.",""],"PSCI P209A":["PSCI","Applied Psychological Research","Focuses on scientific and professional issues in the field of psychology. Topics include communication skills; intervention approaches; collaboration, consultation, and referral; and ethical issues associated with at-risk populations research.",""],"PSCI P210":["PSCI","The New Statistics and Open Science","Introduces the fundamentals of research design and methodology from the perspective of the new statistics and open science. With this introduction, students should be better able to design and conduct their own research.",""],"PSCI P213":["PSCI","Stigma, Discrimination, and Health","Introduces concepts related to stigma and discrimination and presents an overview of selected theoretical and empirical topics in the psychology of stigma, discrimination, and health for investigating and explaining health inequities among marginalized populations across the life-span.",""],"PSCI P214":["PSCI","Seminar in Social Psychology","Presents an overview of selected theoretical and empirical topics in social psychology including social influence and conformity, altruism and aggression, persuasion and attitude change, self and social perception, and social cognition.",""],"PSCI C215":["PSCI","Evidence-Based Psychological Treatments II","Examines theory, research, and application in family, couple, and child therapy using culturally and developmentally sensitive principles. Students are exposed to theoretical frameworks guiding approaches to the treatment of the family system using readings, lectures, and activities.","PSCI C200"],"PSCI P215":["PSCI","Psychology and Law ","An interdisciplinary approach to research in psychology, law, and\/or criminology. Examines how psychology is applied to the civil and criminal justice systems, how case law shapes this application, and how legal decisions affect the direction of psychological research.",""],"PSCI C216":["PSCI","Adult Psychopathology","Explores the antecedents, characteristics, course, outcomes, and options for the prevention or management of various forms of psychopathology and behavior disorder. Focuses on psychological and biobehavioral mechanisms that influence the development, expression, and amelioration of maladaption.",""],"PSCI P216":["PSCI","Psychological Wellbeing and Health","Explores how positive traits, states, and positive behaviors interact with physical health. Discussion focuses on critical assessment of the positive health field, as well as how wellness can be measured and maximized.",""],"PSCI C217":["PSCI","Psychological Assessment","Familiarizes students with psychological assessments in intelligence, clinical diagnosis, personality, and neuropsychological functioning. Exposure to administering, scoring, and interpreting assessments. Special focus on psychometrics (e.g., reliability and validity), test construction, and ethical responsibilities.",""],"PSCI P217":["PSCI","Life-Span Development","Introduces the major concepts of life-span development and discusses those with regard to some key topics of developmental psychology. For example, change and continuity, evolutionary and inherited nature, culture, society, and family-based nurture, and their dynamic interaction.",""],"PSCI P218":["PSCI","Infancy","Covers development from conception through the second year. Focus is on research and theory concerning infants' physical, social, cognitive, perceptual, emotional, and language development. Also covers transition to parenthood and family context of infant development.",""],"PSCI P219":["PSCI","Forensic Neuropsychology","Introduces key concepts in clinical neuropsychology as applied in legal\/forensic settings. Instruction focuses on neuropsychological concepts underlying brain-behavior relationships and their assessment in forensic case examples; and ethical\/legal issues in brain injuries\/diseases impacting higher mental functions (e.g., memory).",""],"PSCI P220":["PSCI","Developmental Psychology: Theories and History","Examines key concepts, theories, and the historical and philosophical roots of research in human life span development. Focuses on biological and environmental causation, universalism and cultural relativism, continuity and change.",""],"PSCI P221":["PSCI","Critical Perspectives in Diversity Science","Presents an overview of psychology as a science of diversity, theories and methodologies that challenge mainstream psychology's epistemological foundations, assumptions, and practices. Some topics include conceptualizations of diversity, positionality in research, and methodologies that facilitate transformative justice for oppressed communities.",""],"PSCI P222":["PSCI","Forensic Assessment ","Explores the various ways in which clinical psychology is relevant to the law, and how forensic psychologists can meaningfully contribute to the adjudicatory process. Examines legal, scientific, and ethical issues that arise when psychologists are involved in legal proceedings.",""],"PSCI P223":["PSCI","Cross-Cultural Psychology","Examines human behavior in diverse cultures (e.g., Asian, American, and African). Cultural diversity within the U.S. and acculturation of various ethnic groups is also discussed. Topics include theories, methods, parenting, family relations, language, cognition, personality, morality, and health.",""],"PSCI P224":["PSCI","Children and the Law","Examines how psychology research and practice can inform several areas of law and social policy affecting children, adolescents, and families. Topics include education, mental health, reproductive rights, and delinquency.",""],"PSCI P225":["PSCI","Forensic Geropsychology","Introduces key concepts in Geropsychology as it is applied in forensic settings. Topics covered include basic concepts in Geropsychology, as well as the role of cognitive disorders and dementia, elder abuse, guardianship, diversity, and other older adult issues.",""],"PSCI P226":["PSCI","Emotion in Psychology","Covers original and recent theories of emotions and how they guide current research.  Specific topics include neuroantomical structure of emotion, life-span emotional development, and health and emotion.",""],"PSCI P231":["PSCI","Professional Issues in Psychology","Examines a variety of issues related to the professional socialization and development of graduate students in psychology. Topics include the publication process, sources of research funding, alternative employment options, competitiveness on the job market, and the academic career route.",""],"PSCI P232":["PSCI","Trauma and Resilience","Psychological impact of trauma; biopsychosocial factors affecting development of traumatic stress, treatment, and preventive interventions for traumatic stress; define and measure resilience; moral injury and post traumatic growth; ethics of studying trauma.",""],"PSCI P234":["PSCI","Childhood","Provides graduate students with an overview of traditional and emerging theories, models, and research designed to understand children's development in the domains of cognitive, social, and emotional functioning.",""],"PSCI P235":["PSCI","Social Health Psychology","Enables students to critically evaluate research related to social health psychology. Offers a deeper understanding of the potential physiological mechanisms underpinning the impact of social psychological factors on health and well-being.",""],"PSCI P236":["PSCI","Inequality and Privilege","Using a social-psychological perspective, examines the origins of inequality and how social class, ethnic\/racial, gender, and other group differences are created, perceived, and upheld. Covers current issues in the area of inequality and intergroup relations.",""],"PSCI P238":["PSCI","Child Psychopathology","Examination of etiology, classification, and developmental pathways of disorders, as well as risk and resilience factors, during the childhood\/adolescent years. Discussion of genetic influences and contextual risk factors as well as internalizing and externalizing disorders.",""],"PSCI P242":["PSCI","Legal Reasoning and Jurisprudence","Overview of the law and legal process as well as the history and assumptions underlying modern legal reasoning. Issues related to procedure and evidence as well as key jurisprudential perspectives are discussed.",""],"PSCI P246":["PSCI","Affective Neuroscience","Provides an overview of the emerging field of affective neuroscience. Emphasis is placed on mapping affective experience and behavior to brain function, including cross-level integration of anatomical, chemical, fMRI, and electrical data.",""],"PSCI P247":["PSCI","EEG Methods ","Provides an in-depth training of the electroencephalogram (EEG) methodology with a specific focus on the event-related potential technique. Emphasis is on learning how to use this methodology and how to analyze data, with a focus on emotional stimuli.",""],"PSCI P249":["PSCI","Advanced Social Psychology ","Conveys an appreciation of the flavors of contemporary social psychology, an understanding of empirical approaches to problems in this area, and a sense of the array of theoretical orientations in the field.",""],"PSCI P250":["PSCI","Emotion, Reasoning, and Memory","Examines research and theory on emotion from the perspective of cognitive psychology. Topics include the effects of emotions on attention, memory, and problem solving; the relations between emotional and cognitive development; flash-bulb memories of intense emotional experiences; eyewitness testimony.",""],"PSCI P251":["PSCI","Clinical Interviewing and Treatment in a Forensic Setting","Students receive an introduction to clinical interviewing, learn details of strategic, solution-focused therapy, and think critically about issues that come at the interaction of psychology and the law. Students are not \"license-eligible\" at end of this course.",""],"PSCI P252":["PSCI","Law and Behavior: Compliance and Enforcement","Provides sophisticated insight into the different ways through which law shapes behavior. Addresses both the economic amoral rational choice theories, as well as ideas from social psychology, criminology, and sociology about the moral, social, and and unconscious dimensions of compliance.",""],"PSCI P253":["PSCI","Master of Legal and Forensic Psychology Capstone","Focuses on macro-level writing topics such as developing a meaningful research question, conducting a thorough review of relevant literature, and presenting a clear and convincing research-based argument.",""],"PSCI P254":["PSCI","Mental Health and the Law ","Explores the history of criminalization of persons with mental illness. Topics include challenges and needs of persons with mental illness; civil and outpatient commitment; law enforcement responses to persons with mental illness; and mentally ill offenders in jails and prisons.",""],"PSCI P255":["PSCI","Violence, Anger, and Psychopathology","Overviews the prevalence of violence as a criminal and public health problem. Topics include violence within families and intimate partner relationships, traumatic origins of violence, the development of a violence-prone personality, the association of anger and violence with psychopathology.",""],"PSCI P256":["PSCI","Family and the Law ","Examines sociological and legal perspectives on the relationship between family life and law, with a focus on three distinct but sometimes interconnected domains: the child welfare system, the criminal justice system, and the immigration system.",""],"PSCI P258":["PSCI","Health Psychology","Interdisciplinary exploration of emerging fields of health psychology and behavioral medicine. Topics: role of stress in development\/treatment of medical problems; sociocognitive determinants of health and illness; interpersonal health transactions; behavioral approaches to medical problems such as diabetes, obesity, hypertension.",""],"PSCI P260":["PSCI","Technology and Health","Explores the growing intersection of health and technology, including electronic Health (\"eHealth\"), mobile health (\"mHealth\"), and digital health and medicine. Specifically, it focuses on the implications and uses of technologies for behavioral and emotional health, and behavioral change.",""],"PSCI P261":["PSCI","Intensive Longitudinal Data Analysis","Fundamentals of Intensive Longitudinal Study designs, gain first-hand experience collecting ILD using web and\/or mobile-based platforms, and learn.","SE 264A and SE 264B"],"PSCI P262":["PSCI","Interpersonal Processes and Health","Examines traditions of research linking interpersonal processes to emotional or physical health. Topics include: role of social support in ameliorating stress, effects of social control on health-compromising behaviors, adverse effects of social relationships on health, causes of deficient social relationships.",""],"PSCI P263":["PSCI","Eyewitness Testimony","Examines the evidence that shows that faulty eyewitness memory is the major cause of wrongful convictions. Explores what the legal system thinks of eyewitness testimony and how the legal system has dealt with eyewitness issues.",""],"PSCI P264":["PSCI","Intensive Writing Workshop","Offers an intensive writing workshop for graduate students with instruction targeting academic writing, peer review, and publishing. Also covers techniques for translating research to a broader audience in the form of opinion, position, and policy papers.",""],"PSCI P265":["PSCI","Memory and the Law","Examines the controversial topic of repressed memory, or perception and memory of real-world events.",""],"PSCI P266":["PSCI","Psychology and the Law","Overview of how psychology is applied to the civil and criminal justice systems, how case law shapes this application, and how legal decisions affect the direction of psychological research. Interdisciplinary approach to research in psychology, law, and\/or  criminology.",""],"PSCI P268":["PSCI","Coping with Stressful Life Events","Explores how individuals cope with serious life crises (e.g., illness, bereavement), life transitions, and daily stressors. Considers how such events impact on people's cognitions, emotions, and health, and the role of others in the coping process.",""],"PSCI P271":["PSCI","Human Evolution and Behavior","Covers theories and empirical research concerning the evolutionary origins of human behaviors and their variations. An interdisciplinary course emphasizing both evolutionary psychology (e.g., mating strategies, kinship, and parenting) and molecular evolution (i.e., evolution of genes for various behaviors).",""],"PSCI P273":["PSCI","Biobehavioral Aspects of Health and Illness","Examines the behavior-physiology interactions of some major bodily systems: the nervous, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, and endocrine systems. Analysis of normal and abnormal states of these systems as they relate to tissue injury, disease, and rehabilitation.",""],"PSCI P275":["PSCI","Special Topics in Psychological Science ","Topics covered vary with interests of instructor.",""],"PSCI P276":["PSCI","Systematic Review and Meta Analysis","The process of synthesizing results from a number of studies that address a common research question is often referred to as meta-analysis. Explores the meta-analysis process from the coding of retrieved studies to the final research synthesis.",""],"PSCI 277":["PSCI","Implementation Science","Focuses on dissemination and implementation (D&I) science. Emphasizes the types of questions D&I research seeks to answer, commonly used models and frameworks, methods employed, and outcomes examined.",""],"PSCI P280A":["PSCI","Interdisciplinary Salivary Bioscience","Theory and research on the integration of salivary analytes into developmental, social, behavioral, and health sciences. Topics include oral fluid as biological specimens; practical aspects of sample handing, collection, and study design; basics of laboratory methods used for assaying saliva.",""],"PSCI P280B":["PSCI","Interdisciplinary Salivary Bioscience Lab","Laboratory sequel to the P280A seminar. Provides laboratory-based hands-on experience integrating salivary analytes into developmental, social, behavioral, and health sciences that also includes supervised training on sample processing.","r corequisite: PCSI P280A. PCSI P280A with a grade of B or better"],"PSCI P281":["PSCI","Race and the Law","Explores how race and other markers of social identity shape outcomes within the criminal justice system. Students examine how race, ethnicity, and national origin intersect with rules governing the policing, trials, and punishment.",""],"PSCI P282":["PSCI","Salivary Bioscience Data Analysis ","A salivary bioscience statistical research working group. Students conduct guided data analyses with salivary biomarker data. Special topics related to salivary bioscience analytic strategies and the interpretation and dissemination of research findings are discussed.",""],"PSCI P283H":["PSCI","Psychoneuroimmunology","Introduces students to the field of psychoneuroimmunology and helps them develop the conceptual and methodological skills necessary for designing and interpreting research on the bidirectional relationship between the immune system and psychological processes.",""],"PSCI P284":["PSCI","Health and Emotion","Overview of research focused on understanding how emotional processes influence physical health. Provides students with a deeper understanding of how emotions play into the health of others as well.",""],"PSCI P285":["PSCI","Anger: A Turbulent Emotion","Provides an enriched perspective on anger beginning with its understanding in classical antiquity. Topics include developmental processes and trauma, anger physiology and neuroscience, anger-related physical health impairments, and the involvement of anger in psychopathology and violence.",""],"PSCI P286":["PSCI","Motivation","Introduces major concepts of motivational psychology, theory, and history. Application of motivational concepts to phenomena from social psychology and affective science. Development of own research proposal in a motivational framework and\/or conceptualizing or expanding an ongoing or planned research project.",""],"PSCI P288":["PSCI","Human Neuropsychology ","Focuses on clinical, neuroanatomical, and neuropathological studies that have contributed to our understanding of brain-behavior relationships in the context of normal brain function and disease-associated neuropsychiatric syndromes.",""],"PSCI P289":["PSCI","The Teaching of Psychology","Provides students with the theory and skills needed to teach undergraduate psychology courses. Covers research on theories and methods of teaching, curriculum design, and evaluation. Students also gain practical experience preparing and presenting material.",""],"PSCI P290":["PSCI","Research in Developmental Psychology","Introduces graduate students to research conducted by individual faculty members in the area of developmental psychology. This is accomplished by having students involve themselves in the conceptualization, strategy, and implementation of the faculty member's research.",""],"PSCI P291":["PSCI","Research in Health Psychology","Introduces graduate students to research conducted by individual faculty members in the area of health psychology. This is accomplished by having students involve themselves in the conceptualization, strategy, and implementation of the faculty member's research.",""],"PSCI P292":["PSCI","Research in Psychopathology and Behavior Disorder","Introduces graduate students to research conducted by individual faculty members in the area of psychopathology and behavior disorder. This is accomplished by having students involve themselves in the conceptualization, strategy, and implementation of the faculty member's research.",""],"PSCI P293":["PSCI","Research in Social and Personality Psychology","Introduces graduate students to research conducted by individual faculty members in the area of social and personality psychology. This is accomplished by having students involve themselves in the conceptualization, strategy, and implementation of the faculty member's research.",""],"PSCI P294A":["PSCI","Research Directions in Psychological Science I","Introduces students to the current research of faculty, graduate students, and visitors to the Department of Psychological Science. Includes examination of contemporary research issues and controversies, as well as issues related to students' development as professionals.",""],"PSCI P294B":["PSCI","Research Directions in Psychological Science II ","Introduces students to the current research of faculty, graduate students, and visitors to the Department of Psychological Science. Includes examination of contemporary research issues and controversies, as well as issues related to students' development as professionals.",""],"PSCI P294C":["PSCI","Research Directions in Psychological Science III","Introduces students to the current research of faculty, graduate students, and visitors to the Department of Psychological Science. Includes examination of contemporary research issues and controversies, as well as issues related to students' development as professionals.",""],"PSCI P295":["PSCI","Research in Psychology and Law","Introduces graduate students to research conducted by individual faculty members in the area of psychology and law. This is accomplished by having students involve themselves in the conceptualization, strategy, and implementation of the faculty member's research.",""],"PSCI P296":["PSCI","Doctoral Dissertation Research and Writing","Dissertation research with Psychological Science faculty.","Advancement to candidacy. "],"PSCI P298":["PSCI","Directed Studies in Psychological Science","Directed study with Psychological Science faculty.",""],"PSCI P299":["PSCI","Independent Studies in Psychological Science","Independent research with Psychological Science faculty.",""],"PSYCH 7A":["PSYCH","Introduction to Psychology","Introduction to field of psychology, addressing the application of scientific methods to the study of human development, learning, memory, problem solving, perception, biological mechanisms, emotions and motivation, personality, psychopathology, and effects of diverse social and cultural contexts on human behavior.",""],"PSYCH 9A":["PSYCH","Psychology Fundamentals","Designed to provide freshman with an in-depth survey of general psychology. Topics include biological bases of behavior, sensation, perception, cognition, development, personality, psychopathology, and social psychology.",""],"PSYCH 9B":["PSYCH","Psychology Fundamentals","Designed to provide freshmen with an in-depth survey of general psychology. Topics include biological bases of behavior, sensation, perception, cognition, development, personality, psychopathology, and social psychology.",""],"PSYCH 9C":["PSYCH","Psychology Fundamentals","Designed to provide freshman with an in-depth survey of general psychology. Topics include biological bases of behavior, sensation, perception, cognition, development, personality, psychopathology, and social psychology.",""],"PSYCH 10A":["PSYCH","Exploratory Data Analysis","Learn multiple ways of visualizing data, of transforming data, looking for consistencies and patterns in data, and interpreting these patterns to reach conclusions. Serves as first introduction to computer programming using the R language.",""],"PSYCH 10B":["PSYCH","Probability and Inference","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on thorough understanding of the probabilistic and logical basis of formal statistical inference, and the concept of statistical evidence. Applications in R.","PSYCH 10A or COGS 10A"],"PSYCH 10C":["PSYCH","Statistical Models","Students learn about standard procedures in statistics for the social sciences, with a focus on linear models for discovering the underlying structure in data. Applications in R.","PSYCH 10A or COGS 10A"],"PSYCH 14M":["PSYCH","MATLAB Programming","MATLAB is a mathematical software package for solving quantitative problems often encountered in experimental psychology. Topics include rudiments of programming, statistical analysis of data, matrix algebra, signal processing, graphic visualization, and simulated models of cognitive and perceptual processes.",""],"PSYCH 14P":["PSYCH","Scientific Python for Research","Introduces Python for data analysis and modeling encountered in cognitive science and neuroscience. Topics include data structures, execution control, graphic visualization, and interaction with sound and display interfaces. Application in statistical analysis, model simulation, and stimulus presentation and experimental control.",""],"PSYCH 21A":["PSYCH","Adolescent Psychology","Focuses on psychosocial dynamics of today's adolescents in America emphasizing the quest for identity, independence, values, and sexual orientation. The influence of society, family, school, and peers is analyzed. Strategies for helping troubled adolescents are discussed.",""],"PSYCH 46A":["PSYCH","Introduction to Human Memory","Covers the core concepts of modern research and theorizing about human memory, including structural subdivisions (e.g., perceptual memory, short-term memory, long-term memory), different measures of memory (e.g., recall, reorganization), and some practical applications of memory research (e.g., mnemonics).",""],"PSYCH 56L":["PSYCH","Acquisition of Language","What children say, what they mean, and what they understand. Theories about the learning of language by one-, two-, and three-year-olds. Comparison of kinds of data on which these theories are based.",""],"PSYCH 78A":["PSYCH","Self-Identity and Society","Studies sociological contributions to theory and research in social psychology, with focus on the social influences on personality, attitudes, beliefs, and behavior; socialization, human groups, and social interaction.",""],"PSYCH 89":["PSYCH","Special Topics in Lower-Division Psychology","Studies in selected areas of psychology at the lower-division level. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"PSYCH H101A":["PSYCH","Honors Seminar in Psychology and Cognitive Sciences I","Focuses on the research activities and honors thesis research projects of each student and the research of various Cognitive Sciences faculty. Students discuss their research interests in the early and later stages of their projects. Research projects and write-ups required.",""],"PSYCH H101B":["PSYCH","Honors Seminar in Psychology and Cognitive Sciences II","Focuses on the research activities and honors thesis research projects of each student and the research of various Cognitive Sciences faculty. Students discuss their research interests in the early and later stages of their projects. Research projects and write-ups required.","PSYCH H101A"],"PSYCH H101C":["PSYCH","Honors Seminar in Psychology and Cognitive Sciences III","Focuses on the research activities and honors thesis research projects of each student and the research of various Cognitive Sciences faculty. Students discuss their research interests in the early and later stages of their projects. Research projects and write-ups required.","PSYCH H101B"],"PSYCH 111BW":["PSYCH","Honors Advanced Experimental Psychology","Design and analysis of multivalent, factorial, and correlational studies. Students prepare proposals for independent research.","PSYCH H111A and (PSYC H11A or PSYCH 112A). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PSYCH H111A":["PSYCH","Honors Experimental Psychology","Emphasis on design of experiments and analysis of results. Experiments are conducted in laboratory sections.","((PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSY BEH 11A and PSY BEH 11B and PSY BEH 11C)) and ((PSYCH 10A and 10B and 10C) or (MATH 2A and MATH 2B and (MATH 7 or STATS 7))). "],"PSYCH H111B":["PSYCH","Honors Advanced Experimental Psychology Laboratory","Design and analysis of multivalent, factorial, and correlational studies. Students prepare proposals for independent research.",""],"PSYCH H111C":["PSYCH","Honors Research in Experimental Psychology","Each student conducts a research project in experimental psychology. The projects are discussed in a seminar format. Written reports on each project are submitted at the end of the quarter.","PSYCH 111BW or PSYCH 112B"],"PSYCH 112A":["PSYCH","Experimental Psychology","Emphasis on design of experiments and analysis of results. Experiments are conducted in laboratory sections.","((PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11B and PSCI 11C)) and ((PSYCH 10A and PSYCH 10B and PSYCH 10C) or (MATH 2A and MATH 2B and (MATH 7 or STATS 7)) )"],"PSYCH 112BW":["PSYCH","Advanced Experimental Psychology","Design and analysis of multivalent, factorial, and correlational studies. Students prepare proposals for independent research.","PSYCH 112A and PSYCH 112LA. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PSYCH 112C":["PSYCH","Research in Experimental Psychology","Each student conducts a research project in experimental psychology. The projects are discussed in a seminar format. Written reports on each project are submitted at the end of the quarter.","PSYCH 112B and PSYCH 112LB"],"PSYCH 112LA":["PSYCH","Experimental Psychology Laboratory","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for Psych 112A.",""],"PSYCH 112LB":["PSYCH","Advanced Experimental Psychology Laboratory","Required laboratory section for PSYCH 112B and PSYCH 112BW.",""],"PSYCH 112LC":["PSYCH","Research in Experimental Psychology","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for PSYCH 112C.",""],"PSYCH 112LM":["PSYCH","Research Methods in Psychology Laboratory","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for PSYCH 112M.",""],"PSYCH 112LP":["PSYCH","Research in Perception and Psychophysics Laboratory","Required laboratory section and co-requisite for COGS 112P.",""],"PSYCH 112LR":["PSYCH","Cognitive Robotics Laboratory","Required laboratory section and corequisite for PSYCH 112R.",""],"PSYCH 112M":["PSYCH","Research Methods in Psychology","Research methods in psychology for majors who wish to fulfill this requirement separately from upper-division writing. Covers both experimental and descriptive research methods, analysis of results, and reading the psychological literature. Research experience is provided in laboratory sections.","(PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSY BEH 11A and PSY BEH 11B and PSY BEH 11C) and (PSYCH 10C or SOC SCI 10C or ANTHRO 10C or POL SCI 10C or SOCIOL 10C) or (MATH 2B and STATS 7)"],"PSYCH 112P":["PSYCH","Research in Perception and Psychophysics","Introduction to design and practice of experiments: students perform auditory, visual, tactile, or other experiments. Emphasis on methodology, finding and reading previous research, generating research ideas, statistical analysis.","(PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11B and PSCI 11C) and (PSYCH 10C or SOC SCI 10C or ANTHRO 10C or POL SCI 10C or SOCIOL 10C) or (MATH 2B and STATS 7)"],"PSYCH 112R":["PSYCH","Cognitive Robotics","Introduces concepts on experimental design, embodiment, robot construction, and computer programming. Concepts of embodied intelligence and case studies of cognitive robotics are covered in lecture. Simple robots are constructed and programmed to carry out different behavioral experiments in lab.","(PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSCI 11A and PSCI 11B and PSCI 11C) and (PSYCH 10C or SOC SCI 10C or ANTHRO 10C or POL SCI 10C or SOCIOL 10C) or (MATH 2B and STATS 7)"],"PSYCH 119":["PSYCH","Special Topics in Research Methodologies","Studies in selected areas of research methodologies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"PSYCH 120A":["PSYCH","Abnormal Psychology","Introduction to psychopathology and behavioral deviations, and the concepts of theories regarding these conditions.","PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9 or PSYCH 9C or PSCI 11C"],"PSYCH 120D":["PSYCH","Developmental Psychology","A general introduction to the study of the physical, intellectual, social, and emotional development of the child from birth to adulthood.","PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9 or PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A"],"PSYCH 120H":["PSYCH","History of Psychology","A history of the development of various schools and systems of psychological thought.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B) and (PSYCH 9C or PSCI 11C)"],"PSYCH 120P":["PSYCH","Personality Theories","A survey of the evolution of personality theory during this century. An overview of major perspectives in the field, with special attention to Freud, Jung, and Adler.","PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9 or PSYCH 9C or PSCI 11C"],"PSYCH 121M":["PSYCH","Theories of Motivation","Factors affecting the behavioral performance of organisms. A survey of theoretical and empirical approaches to the physiological, psychological, and social factors which generate behavior.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B) and (PSYCH 9C or PSCI 11C)"],"PSYCH 121S":["PSYCH","Psychology of Sleep and Consciousness","Covers the physiology, neurochemistry, and neuroanatomy associated with sleep, contemporary sleep theory, REM and NREM, phenomenology, sleep disorders, examination of differences between conscious and unconscious cognitive function, the history of sleep and dream theories from ancient time to present day.",""],"PSYCH 122C":["PSYCH","Clinical Psychology","Provides overview of the clinical psychology field including theories and techniques used in counseling and testing.",""],"PSYCH 122I":["PSYCH","Organizational\/Industrial Psychology","Introduction to applied psychology in organizations, including personnel testing, selection, training and evaluation, job and classification analysis, job satisfaction and motivation, organizational development, leadership, market research, and consumer psychology. Potential ethical problems are discussed.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9) or (PSYCH 9A or PSY BEH 11A) or (PSYCH 9B or PSY BEH 11B) or (PSYCH 9C or PSY BEH 11C)"],"PSYCH 122P":["PSYCH","Clinical Psychophysiology","Psychophysiology investigates the relationships between physiological processes and psychological phenomena. Technologies examined include reaction times, heart rate variability, EEGs, ERPs, magnetoencephalography, and eye tracking. Applications include diagnosis, the longitudinal assessment, and the identification of individuals at risk of disease onset.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A or PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A"],"PSYCH 123P":["PSYCH","Topics in Philosophy of Psychology","Selected topics in the philosophy of psychology, e.g., the nature of psychological explanation, reductionism, issues in cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience.",""],"PSYCH 124S":["PSYCH","Sports Psychology","Discusses the field of sports psychology with an emphasis on clinical practice including motivation, goal setting, performance skills, and mental skills. Discusses and utilizes a wide range of techniques designed to enhance performance and manage problems among athletes.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9) or (PSYCH 9C or PSY BEH 11C)"],"PSYCH 124V":["PSYCH","Psychology of Violence","Discusses the psychology of violence and aggression with an emphasis on understanding the psychological, social, and physiological roots of violent and aggressive behavior. Psychological treatment techniques and strategies for prevention of aggressive and violent behavior are also discussed.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9) or (PSYCH 9C or PSY BEH 11C)"],"PSYCH 127P":["PSYCH","Personality Disorders","The history of personality disorder classification; defining characteristics of each disorder; the causes, courses, and outcomes of personality disorders; and information regarding assessment, prevention, and treatments of these disorders.","PSCI 11C or PSYCH 9C"],"PSYCH 129":["PSYCH","Special Topics in General Psychology","Studies in selected areas of general psychology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"PSYCH 130A":["PSYCH","Perception and Sensory Processes","A general introduction to the scientific study of sensory processes and perceptual phonomena, with special emphasis in the visual systems.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A)"],"PSYCH 131A":["PSYCH","Vision","Visual perception and the anatomy and physiology of the visual system. Topics include the retina and the visual pathway; visual sensitivity; color vision; spatial vision; motion perception; and the development of the visual system.",""],"PSYCH 131B":["PSYCH","Hearing","Auditory perception, the anatomy and physiology of the auditory system, and the physics of sound. Topics include neural transduction of sound, sensitivity, sound localization, complex sound perception, and hearing loss.","(PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B)"],"PSYCH 135M":["PSYCH","The Mind\/Body Problem","What is consciousness and what is matter and how are the two related? How can brains have minds? This multidisciplinary course draws on information from the fields of computer vision, artificial intelligence, cognition, neurophysiology, philosophy, and psychophysics.",""],"PSYCH 139":["PSYCH","Special Topics in Perception and Sensory Processes","Studies in selected areas of perception and sensory processes. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"PSYCH 140C":["PSYCH","Cognitive Science","Introduction to the investigations of the structure and function of the mind, from viewpoints of computation, neuroscience, philosophy, and cognitive psychology. Topics include perception, attention, knowledge representations, learning and memory, action, reasoning, and language.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9) and (PSYCH 9A or PSY BEH 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSY BEH 11B)"],"PSYCH 140J":["PSYCH","Judgment and Decision Making","The psychology of human decision making. Theories, models, experiments, and data that inform how people make choices, judgments, and other decisions. Topics include optimality and bias, mental simulation, learning and feedback, expertise, emotional effects, and group decision making.","PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B"],"PSYCH 140L":["PSYCH","Principles of Learning Theory","Investigation of the learning and memory processes of human and animals.  Basic experimental approaches to learning and memory, empirical results, and theoretical interpretations of the evidence are discussed.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A)"],"PSYCH 140M":["PSYCH","Human Memory","Developments in the area of memory; history of memory research; theories of the nature of memory. Visual memory, recognition memory, high-speed scanning, free recall, short-term memory, mnemonics, retrieval, relationship of memory to thinking. Selected theoretical formulations for memory.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B)"],"PSYCH 143P":["PSYCH","Human Problem Solving","Modern developments in the psychology of human problem solving. Topics include concept identification, arithmetic, sets, logic puzzles, story problems, group problem solving, and theorem proving.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9) or (PSYCH 9B or PSY BEH 11B)"],"PSYCH 146MW":["PSYCH","Writing about Memory","Covers a broad range of texts, literary, philosophical, and scientific, each probing the nature of memory and its meaning in human life. Readings are drawn from across many disciplines and many perspectives.","PSYCH 7A or PSYCH 9B or PSCI 9 or PSCI 11B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PSYCH 149":["PSYCH"," Special Topics in Cognition and Learning","Studies in selected areas of cognition and learning. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"PSYCH 150":["PSYCH","Psychology of Language","Examines language using the tools of experimental psychology. From sounds to words to spoken and written sentences, explores how language is used in real time, and how its use reveals how it is represented in the mind.","PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9 or PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B or LSCI 3"],"PSYCH 156A":["PSYCH","Acquisition of Language II","Focuses on native language learning, exploring the way in which infants and very young children unconsciously uncover the rich systematic knowledge of their native language. Examines both experimental and computational studies that quantitatively investigate the \"how\" of language acquisition.","PSYCH 56L or LINGUIS 51"],"PSYCH 157M":["PSYCH","Computational Methods for Language Research","Focuses on computational methods useful for language research. Students become familiar with software and programming languages used for extracting information from electronic datasets and for creating basic simulations of linguistic cognition. No prior programming experience assumed.","PSYCH 150 or LSCI 155 or PSYCH 156A or LSCI 151"],"PSYCH 159":["PSYCH","Special Topics in Language","Studies in selected areas of language sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary. "],"PSYCH 160A":["PSYCH","Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience","Introduction to the neural basis of human perceptual, motor, and cognitive abilities. Topics include sensory perception, motor control, memory, language, attention, emotion, frontal lobe function, functional brain imaging, and neuropsychological disorders.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or ((PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B))"],"PSYCH 160D":["PSYCH","Brain Disorders and Behavior","Examines the localization of human brain functions and the effects of neurological disorders on psychological functions such as perception, motor control, language, memory, and decision-making.","(PSYCH 7A or PSCI 9) or ((PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSCI 11B)) or BIO SCI 35 or BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A"],"PSYCH 160H":["PSYCH","History of Cognitive Neuroscience","Studies of the human mind from ancient cultures to the innovation of modern methods of brain imaging. Logic of valid and invalid brain hypothesis are examined. Recurring theme is the competition between holistic and localized views of brain function.","PSYCH 9A or PSY BEH 11A or PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9"],"PSYCH 161":["PSYCH","Language and the Brain ","Research analysis on biological bases of human linguistic capacity. Development, focusing on hemispheric specialization, plasticity; localization of specific linguistic functions in adults, with emphasis on study of aphasias; relation of linguistic capacity to general cognitive capacity, considering research on retardation.","(PSYCH 7A or PSY BEH 9 or PSYCH 9A or PSY BEH 11A) and (PSYCH 9B or PSY BEH 11B or BIO SCI 35 or BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A)"],"PSYCH 161H":["PSYCH","Hearing and the Brain","An overview of brain mechanisms of hearing, including perception of simple sounds, speech, and music. Begins with sound itself, and looks at processing by the ear, auditory pathways, auditory cortex, and beyond. Also auditory development, learning, and clinical issues.","PSYCH 160A or BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"PSYCH 162N":["PSYCH","Human  Neuropsychology","A survey of human brain disorders using a clinical case study approach to illustrate fundamental issues in studying brain and behavior. Topics include sensory deficits, attentional neglect, amnesia, cortical organization, clinical psychopathology, and more.","BIO SCI N110 or BIO SCI N115A or PSYCH 9A or PSCI 11A"],"PSYCH 169":["PSYCH","Special Topics in Cognitive Neuroscience ","Studies in selected areas of cognitive neuroscience. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary. "],"PSYCH 173A":["PSYCH","Psychological Anthropology","Cultural differences and similarities in personality and behavior.  Child-rearing practices and consequent adult personality characteristics, biocultural aspects of child development and attachment, culture and behavior evolutionary models, politically linked personality, cognitive anthropology, psychology of narrative forms, comparative national character studies.","ANTHRO 2A or PSYCH 7A or (PSYCH 9A and PSYCH 9B and PSYCH 9C) or (PSY BEH 11A and PSY BEH 11B and PSY BEH 11C)"],"PSYCH 174E":["PSYCH","African American Psychology","Historical overview of the development of black psychology and the African American frame of reference. Topics include personality development, psychological assessment, issues in education, black mental health, and the role of the African American psychologist in the community.",""],"PSYCH 174H":["PSYCH","Chicano\/Latino Families","Introduction to the research, literature, and issues surrounding the topic of Chicano\/Latino families including cultural history, contemporary issues, organization of family, traditions, lifestyles, values, beliefs, generational differences, gender issues, ethnic identity, evolution of demographic patterns, current economic and political standings.",""],"PSYCH 176A":["PSYCH","Political Psychology","Examination of how psychological theory and research may be used to better understand political thought and behavior. Drawing on theories of learning, cognition, and personality, discusses such topics as the formation of political attitudes, and the process of political decision-making.",""],"PSYCH 177D":["PSYCH","Deviance","Perspectives on deviance and criminality in behavior, institution, community, and myth. The suitability of contemporary theories of deviant behavior.",""],"PSYCH 177F":["PSYCH","Forensic Psychology: Advanced Seminar","Focuses on the psychology of criminal offending, particularly violent behavior. Examines violence, sexual offending, and mental disorder related to crime with regard to clinical assessment and treatment; mental health services within forensic institutions.","(PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYCH 7A or PSYCH 9C) and PSCI 102C and (PSCI 178S or CRM\/LAW C149)"],"PSYCH 178N":["PSYCH","Social Psychology of Networks","Review of network methods used in small group and organizational research. Discussion of social psychological literature relevant to the network of study of cognitive social structure, exchange\/communication, identity negotiation, and social control. Case study of network datasets exemplifies research issues.",""],"PSYCH 179":["PSYCH","Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies","Studies in selected areas of interdisciplinary studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary. "],"PSYCH 198":["PSYCH","Directed Group Study","Directed study with Cognitive Sciences faculty.",""],"PSYCH 199":["PSYCH","Independent Study","Independent research with Cognitive Sciences faculty.",""],"PSYCH 231P":["PSYCH","Topics in Philosophy of Psychology","Selected topics in the philosophy of psychology, e.g., the nature of psychological explanation, reductionism, issues in cognitive, behavioral, and neuroscience.",""],"PSYCH 245M":["PSYCH","Computational Models of Language Learning","Focuses on computational models of native language learning, exploring how probabilistic learning and inference fare on difficult case studies within language acquisition. In all cases, grounds the learning models in available empirical data and considers their psychological plausibility.","LSCI 251. LSCI 251 with a grade of B- or better"],"PUBHLTH 1":["PUBHLTH","Principles of Public Health","Introduces the major concepts and principles of public health and the determinants of health status in communities. Emphasizes the ecological model that focuses on the linkages and relationships among multiple natural and social determinants affecting health.",""],"PUBHLTH 2":["PUBHLTH","Case Studies in Public Health Practice","Presents case studies in various themes of public health practice to demonstrate how the principles of public health were established and continue to evolve.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 7A":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Statistics I","Introduces the development and application of statistical reasoning and methods in addressing, analyzing, and solving problems in public health, health care, and biomedical, clinical, and population-based research and practice.",""],"PUBHLTH 7B":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Statistics II","Introduces the development and application of statistical reasoning and methods in addressing, analyzing, and solving problems in public health, health care, and biomedical, clinical, and population-based research and practice.","PUBHLTH 7A"],"PUBHLTH 10":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Public Health ","Introduction to emerging topics in public health. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 30":["PUBHLTH","Introduction to Urban Environmental Health","Study of natural and physical components of earth's environmental problems due to human activities. Topics include global air, water, soil, biodiversity, rainforests, energy, demographics, agriculture, and urbanization. Theme is sustainability. Integrated into the science are social, legal, and economic considerations.",""],"PUBHLTH 60":["PUBHLTH","Environmental Quality and Health","Overviews how pollution in the environment affects human health. Topics are toxicology, epidemiology, risk assessment, water, food, air, radiation, pesticides, solid and hazardous waste. Included are interdisciplinary elements of environmental regulations, education, and consumer protection.",""],"PUBHLTH 80":["PUBHLTH","AIDS Fundamentals","Considers the biological and sociological bases of the AIDS epidemic. Topics include the history of AIDS, current medical knowledge, transmission, risk reduction, and how the community can respond.",""],"PUBHLTH 90":["PUBHLTH","Natural Disasters","Natural disasters are natural Earth processes that adversely affect humans. Topics include tectonics, earthquakes, tsunami, volcanoes, landslides, severe weather, flooding, coastal processes, wildfire, related topics, and use of GIS for hazard and risk assessment.",""],"PUBHLTH 91":["PUBHLTH","Disparities in Health Care","Student participatory course practicing initiation, planning, and coordination of various speakers on the subject of Disparities in Health Care.",""],"PUBHLTH 100":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Public Health","Studies in selected areas of public health. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Course may be offered online when topic is Public Health in the Corporate World.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 101":["PUBHLTH","Introduction to Epidemiology","The distribution of disease and injury across time, space, and populations. Covers basic concepts and methods of descriptive epidemiology including the natural history of disease, data, and indices of health.","STATS 7 or STATS 8 or PUBHLTH 7 or PUBHLTH 7A"],"PUBHLTH 102":["PUBHLTH","Social Epidemiology","Overviews evidence linking environmental factors to mental and physical disorders including such variables as socioeconomic status, income inequality, work stress, job loss, social capital, location, and other demographic characteristics. Measurement and research design issues of both individual and aggregate levels.","Recommended: (PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYCH 7A or PSYCH 9C) and SOCECOL 10 and SOCECOL 13."],"PUBHLTH 105":["PUBHLTH","Introduction to Health Informatics","Broad overview of medical informatics for students with varied backgrounds. Electronic medical records, online resources, mobile technologies, patient safety, and computational design. Legal, ethical, and public policy issues. Health systems management. Evaluation and fieldwork for health systems.","WRITING 60 or WRITING 30 or WRITING 31 or HUMAN 1C or HUMAN H1C. WRITING 60 with a grade of C or better. WRITING 30 with a grade of C or better. WRITING 31 with a grade of C or better. HUMAN 1C with a grade of C or better. HUMAN H1C with a grade of C or better"],"PUBHLTH 106":["PUBHLTH","Project in Health Informatics","Students undertake significant quarter-long projects related to health informatics. Topics may include field evaluations of health care technologies, prototypes, iterative design, and system implementations.","PUBHLTH 105 or IN4MATX 171"],"PUBHLTH 107":["PUBHLTH","Epidemiology of Drug Use and Misuse","Applies epidemiologic concepts to the use and misuse of licit\/illicit substances. Emphasizes descriptive aspects of drug use and determinants of progressing from experimental use to misuse. Assesses subgroups of abusers, risk factors, trends, and surveillance techniques for estimating drug prevalence.","PUBHLTH 101"],"PUBHLTH 115":["PUBHLTH","Community, Social Justice, and Health Equity Research for Action","Focuses on community as a unit of identity, community, well-being, and social justice perspectives and initiatives to promote community health. Addresses community change and improvements in community well-being, with a focus on health equity research for action.","PUBHLTH 1 or PUBHLTH 2 or CHC\/LAT 61 or CHC\/LAT 62 or CHC\/LAT 63"],"PUBHLTH 119":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Epidemiology and Genetics","Studies in selected areas of epidemiology and genetics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 120":["PUBHLTH","Nutrition and Global Health","Global issues related to nutrition and public health. Evaluation of nutritional risk factors associated with the development of chronic diseases and the role of nutritional medicine in prevention. Topics include food safety, communicable diseases, supplements, and regulatory issues.",""],"PUBHLTH 122":["PUBHLTH","Health Policy","Considers social and economic aspects of health and disease in the United States.  What are the proper roles of the individual, community, and government in improving health and health care?  International comparisons will be made wherever possible.",""],"PUBHLTH 125":["PUBHLTH","Foundations of Community Health","A social ecological framework for understanding community health is presented. Measures of individual and community health are compared, and the influence of personal and environmental factors on individual, group, and population health is examined. Community health promotion strategies are discussed.",""],"PUBHLTH 126":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Law: Fundamentals in Action","Addresses the relationship of U.S. public health law to health systems at the individual and population levels. Examines legislative and judicial concepts and how they are applied to disease prevention strategies, health services, management, and policy.",""],"PUBHLTH 127":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Programs for the Corporate World","International perspective on workplace health promotion. Strategies for developing programs to improve employee health and to decrease risks of chronic degenerative diseases. Case studies include assessment of employee health, program design, implementation, and evaluation. Emphasis on disease prevention.",""],"PUBHLTH 129":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Administration","Examines historical aspects of public health administration including policies, procedures, trends, and development of organizations. Addresses information and skills necessary to succeed in public health leadership roles. Discusses strategic planning, collaborations, and ethical considerations for successful management in public health.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 132":["PUBHLTH","American Public Policy","Focuses on the development and implementation of public policy in the United States. Lectures cover theoretical models of the policy process as well as significant problems facing contemporary American decision-makers.",""],"PUBHLTH 135":["PUBHLTH","Medical Sociology","Current problems in U.S. health-care system and proposals for reform. Examines  financial barriers to access; problem of patient dumping; underinsurance; prenatal and perinatal care; child services; preventative care and needs of the elderly; minorities; low-income people; undocumented.",""],"PUBHLTH 138":["PUBHLTH","Tobacco Control Policy","Examines the challenges that governments encounter in regulating the marketing, sales and acquisition, and use of tobacco products. Students assess the supply and demand for tobacco from the perspectives of the industry and consumer.",""],"PUBHLTH 139":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Health Policy and Administration","Studies in selected areas of health policy and administration. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 141":["PUBHLTH","Clinical Health Psychology","Behavioral role in etiology, treatment, and prevention of certain diseases. Behavioral intervention including biofeedback, stress-, pain-management, health habit counseling, and other skills to assist patients make cognitive, emotional, and behavioral changes needed to cope with disease or achieve better health.","Recommended: PSCI 9 or PSCI 11C or PSYCH 7A or PSYCH 9C."],"PUBHLTH 144":["PUBHLTH","Health Behavior Theory","Introduces theoretical perspectives from the social sciences to understand health behavior from the vantage point of individuals, their interpersonal contacts, communities, and ecological contexts. Application of theory to public health problems is a central focus.",""],"PUBHLTH 146":["PUBHLTH","Health Promotion Programs","Examines ecological perspectives of health promotion programs and risk factors related to mortality\/morbidity.  Analyzes effectiveness of health promotion strategies and issues in the existing healthcare systems in light of sociocultural beliefs and economical\/political conditions.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 147":["PUBHLTH","Drug Abuse and its Prevention","Theoretical and practical underpinnings of drug abuse and its prevention at the individual and population levels. Students practice developing drug abuse prevention schemes for specific populations. Recent developments in pharmacological and biobehavioral theories of drug dependence are explored.",""],"PUBHLTH 148":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Communication","Theoretical underpinnings and practical applications of communication sciences in public health practice. Techniques of effective communication, including fear appeal and deterrence; social marketing; public-private partnerships; health service delivery; and outreach in rural and urban settings, and for international health strategies.","PUBHLTH 1 and PUBHLTH 2"],"PUBHLTH 150":["PUBHLTH","Public Health and Wellness","Presents information about wellness from both science and policy perspectives in order to demonstrate the role of wellness in public health. Emphasizes the conditions that create wellness in the individual, the community, the nation, and the world.",""],"PUBHLTH 159":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Social and Behavioral Health Science","Studies in selected areas of social and behavioral health sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 161":["PUBHLTH","Environmental Geology","Introduction to geologic principles and applications to environmental problems. Topics include: tectonic processes, earth materials, soils, river processes, groundwater, the coastal environment, slope failures, seismic hazards, mineral resources, and land-use evaluation based on geologic conditions. Examples from case studies.",""],"PUBHLTH 163":["PUBHLTH","Introduction to Environmental Health Science","Focuses on processes of exposure to environmental toxins\/agents and their impact to human health and the environment. Media transport, exposure assessment, susceptibility, behavior, and health effect of several toxins are discussed.",""],"PUBHLTH 167":["PUBHLTH","Air Pollution, Climate, and Health","Introduction to how air pollutants are emitted into the atmosphere, how people are most exposed to air pollutants in developed and developing areas, physical and meteorological processes that affect transport, and the influence of air pollutants on global warming.",""],"PUBHLTH 168":["PUBHLTH","Nuclear Environments","Understanding the impact of the nuclear age on the environment and human health through interrelated developments of nuclear power and nuclear weapons. The early years of weapon development, catastrophic environmental pollution, perils of nuclear power in the U.S. and Russia.",""],"PUBHLTH 170":["PUBHLTH","Introduction to Global Health","Provides a foundational interdisciplinary understanding of global health issues and their importance to various societal goals, including poverty reduction, economic productivity, and peace promotion. Covers major communicable and non-communicable diseases and demographic patterns of disease burden.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 171":["PUBHLTH","Human Exposure to Environmental Contaminants","Introduces origins of human's realization that chemicals in the environment may adversely affect health. Introduces the theory and principles of exposure assessment. Covers estimation of exposure, variability of measures, the way exposure assessment is incorporated into the risk-assessment paradigm.",""],"PUBHLTH 172":["PUBHLTH","Climate Change and Disaster Management","Examines the social, economic, environmental, and health impacts of anthropogenic climate change through engaged learning that integrates practice and theory.",""],"PUBHLTH 173":["PUBHLTH","Health and Global Environmental Change ","Overview of scientific underpinnings of global environmental change and human health consequences. Provides  an understanding of the fundamental dependency of human health on global environmental integrity. Encourages disciplinary cross-fertilization through interaction of students in environmental, health, and policy sciences.","One upper-division course in environmental science, public health, environmental policy, and\/or environmental management."],"PUBHLTH 174":["PUBHLTH","Global Health Ethics","Provides a foundation for understanding and application of key issues.",""],"PUBHLTH 176":["PUBHLTH","War and Public Health","Explores how war impacts public health both globally and domestically in the United States. Focus on the link between war and the burden that it ultimately places on physical, mental, environmental, and societal health as well as on health systems.",""],"PUBHLTH 177":["PUBHLTH","Global Health Policy and Diplomacy","Fundamental principles and consequences of global health policy and diplomacy, including governance structure, functions, analysis, advocacy, and outcomes. Emphasizes practical application of multilateral policies for global health security and responses to transnational threats such as pandemics, climate, pollution, and migration.",""],"PUBHLTH 179":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Environmental and Global Health Science","Studies in selected areas of environmental and global health sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 180":["PUBHLTH","Epidemiology of Infectious Disease","Examines the distribution of infectious disease and the health and disease risk among human populations. Introduces basic methods for infectious disease epidemiology. Case studies of important diseases, including HIV and malaria, are conducted.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 181":["PUBHLTH","Infectious Disease Dynamics","Learn how the immune system interacts with infectious diseases, in particular with viral infections. An introduction to basic virology and immunology, it concentrates on the way in which the immune system is critical to the prevention of infections.",""],"PUBHLTH 182":["PUBHLTH","Evolutionary and Ecological Principles in Medicine","Explore the dynamics of populations on an ecological, epidemiological, and medical level. Considers the dynamics of competition, predation, and parasitism; the spread and control of infectious diseases; and the in vivo dynamics of viral infections and the immune system.","BIO SCI 93 or BIO SCI H93"],"PUBHLTH 189":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Infectious Diseases","Studies in selected areas of infectious diseases. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 190":["PUBHLTH","Geographic Information Systems for Public Health","Provides a broad introduction to the use of Geographic Information Systems software to carry out projects for visualizing and analyzing spatial data to address significant issues of health care and policy-planning.",""],"PUBHLTH 191A":["PUBHLTH","Seminar: Advances and Challenges in Public Health","Forum for exploring recent advances and challenges in all disciplines of public health research and practice. Features case studies exemplifying the integration of core competencies with cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes of public health.",""],"PUBHLTH 191B":["PUBHLTH","Seminar: Advances and Challenges in Public Health","Forum for exploring recent advances and challenges in all disciplines of public health research and practice. Features case studies exemplifying the integration of core competencies with cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes of public health.",""],"PUBHLTH 191C":["PUBHLTH","Seminar: Advances and Challenges in Public Health","Forum for exploring recent advances and challenges in all disciplines of public health research and practice. Features case studies exemplifying the integration of core competencies with cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes of public health.",""],"PUBHLTH H192A":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Honors Seminar and Thesis I","Provides an opportunity for selected students to pursue advanced work in research and earn Public Health Honors. Students will conduct their honors research project with faculty through lectures, guest speakers, creating timelines and assignments.",""],"PUBHLTH H192B":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Honors Seminar and Thesis II","Students initiate and complete data collection for the honors thesis. In addition, students begin data analysis and summarize results at a class symposium at the end of the quarter. A faculty mentor provides supervision and feedback on thesis chapters.","PUBHLTH H192A"],"PUBHLTH H192C":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Honors Seminar and Thesis III","Students write their honors research project (PUBHLTH H192A-PUBHLTH H192B) and prepare an oral report to be presented at a class symposium at the end of the quarter. A faculty mentor provides supervision and feedback on thesis chapters.","PUBHLTH H192B"],"PUBHLTH 193":["PUBHLTH","Ethics and Responsible Conduct of Research in Public Health","Issues of scientific integrity and satisfies the requirements for training in public health ethics. Includes guidelines for responsible conduct of research, federal and international codes, administrative review and approval, conflict of interest, and privacy and safety of research participants.  Course may be offered online.",""],"PUBHLTH 194A":["PUBHLTH","Clinical and Translational Research Preparatory I","Provides training for students with an interest in clinical and translational research in the health care setting. Cultivates skills for study design, research literature review, ethics, responsible conduct of research, and cultural competence while emphasizing professionalism and personal responsibility.","BIO SCI 99 and BIO SCI 194S and CHEM 1C and CHEM 1LC and CHEM 1LD. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PUBHLTH 194B":["PUBHLTH","Clinical and Translational Research Preparatory II","Provides opportunities for students to participate in clinical and translational research through rotations in at least two health care settings. Builds on preparation through the first course (194A) in the sequence to support exploration of various research topics.","PUBHLTH 194A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PUBHLTH 194C":["PUBHLTH","Clinical and Translational Research Preparatory III","Provides opportunities for students to work closely in a particular clinical and translational research setting. Builds on preparation through the didactic instruction presented in first course of the sequence (194A) to support deeper engagement on a particular research topic.","PUBHLTH 194B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PUBHLTH 195W":["PUBHLTH","Public Health Practicum and Culminating Experience","Provides direct opportunities for Public Health majors to observe and participate in public health activities and\/or research; and to cultivate skills for verbal and written communication of contemporary public health topics for an integrative culminating experience.","PUBHLTH 1 and PUBHLTH 2. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"PUBHLTH 196A":["PUBHLTH","Clinical and Translational Research Preparatory I - Community-Based Research and Evaluation","Provides training for students with an interest in clinical and translational research in a community-based setting. Cultivates skills for study design, research literature review, ethics, responsible conduct of research, and cultural competence while emphasizing professionalism and personal responsibility.",""],"PUBHLTH 196B":["PUBHLTH","Clinical and Translational Research Preparatory II - Community-Based Research and Evaluation","Provides the unique opportunity for students to participate in research in two or more community-based settings. Builds on preparation through PUBHLTH 196A to support exploration of various research topics.","PUBHLTH 196A"],"PUBHLTH 196C":["PUBHLTH","Clinical and Translational Research Preparatory III - Community-Based Research and Evaluation III","Final course in the 196 series where students have the unique opportunity to participate in permanent research rotation. Instructs students how to design, perform, interpret, and discuss independent research in a collaborative atmosphere.","PUBHLTH 196B"],"PUBHLTH 197":["PUBHLTH","Field Studies in Public Health","For students who may either accompany faculty members on field trips or engage in post-practicum work at a field agency.","PUBHLTH 1 and PUBHLTH 2"],"PUBHLTH 198":["PUBHLTH","Directed Studies","Student participation in a series of research-related activities performed in an individual or small-group setting under the guidance of a faculty advisor.","PUBHLTH 1"],"PUBHLTH 199":["PUBHLTH","Undergraduate Research","Original research with Public Health faculty. Attendance at regular research group meetings is also generally expected, and a quarterly written report is required. Strongly recommended for students considering research careers and\/or graduate degree programs.",""],"PUBHLTH 200":["PUBHLTH","Foundations of Public Health","Presents the overarching framework, principles, and core responsibilities of public health research and practice from a multidisciplinary perspective. Provides necessary foundation for further studies toward advanced cross-cutting approaches essential for public health practice.",""],"PUBHLTH 204":["PUBHLTH","Biostatistics I: Introduction to Statistical Methods","Designed to help students develop an appreciation for statistician's view of the research process, emphasizing biomedical research. Instills an understanding of how statistical models are used to yield insights about data that form evidence-based understanding of the world around us.",""],"PUBHLTH 204B":["PUBHLTH","Biostatistics II: Intermediate Statistical Methods","Intended for graduate students in epidemiology, public health, and clinical research fields. Covers common regression-modeling techniques frequently used in biologic and medical applications.","EPIDEM 204. EPIDEM 204 with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 204C":["PUBHLTH","Biostatistics III: Advanced Statistical Methods","Intended for graduate students in epidemiology, public health, and related fields.  Introduces statistical methods for analyzing survival and longitudinal\/clustered data, and techniques to resolve missing data.","EPIDEM 204B. EPIDEM 204B with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 206A":["PUBHLTH","Principles of Epidemiology","Fundamental principles of epidemiology, biostatistics, and epidemiological research. Topics include research methods of measuring health problems in populations, disease control and prevention in populations, how epidemiology contributes to knowledge of disease etiology, and biostatistical analysis and interpretation of epidemiologic data.",""],"PUBHLTH 206B":["PUBHLTH","Intermediate Epidemiology","Learn to design and conduct epidemiologic studies using common designs. Determine why bias and measurement error arise in observational studies, and how they influence effect estimates. Perform and interpret epidemiologic data analyses using statistical software.","PUBHLTH 206A. PUBHLTH 206A with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 206C":["PUBHLTH","Advanced Epidemiologic Methods","Advanced topics in the design and statistical analysis of epidemiologic studies. Topics include simulation methods, counter-matching and multiphase study designs, missing data, and Bayesian analysis. Published simulation studies are discussed and replicated using the R software package.","EPIDEM 200A and EPIDEM 200B. EPIDEM 200A with a grade of B or better. EPIDEM 200B with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 207A":["PUBHLTH","Probability and Statistics in Public Health","An introduction to probability and statistical methods, using examples in public health. Topics include descriptive statistics, laws of probability, discrete and continuous probability distributions, estimation, confidence intervals, hypothesis testing, and power calculations for one- and two-sample comparisons.","PUBHLTH 206A. PUBHLTH 206A with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 207B":["PUBHLTH","Analysis of Public Health Data Using Statistical Software","Overview of common statistical methods in public health and how to implement them in R. Topics include linear regression, ANOVA, the Kruskal-Wallis test, logistic regression, missing data and censoring, Kaplan-Meier survival curves, log-rank tests, and Cox regression.","PUBHLTH 207A. PUBHLTH 207A with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 208":["PUBHLTH","Advances in Social Epidemiology","Advances understanding of social distribution and social determinants of disease through multiple risk factor models and mechanisms that emphasize developmental and socio-environmental risk factors on mental and physical health across the life span.",""],"PUBHLTH 209":["PUBHLTH","Methods of Demographic Analysis","Introduces basic demographic methods used in social science and public health research. Topics include sources and limitations of demographic data; components of population growth; measures of nuptiality, fertility, mortality, and population mobility projection methods; and demographic models.",""],"PUBHLTH 210":["PUBHLTH","Theory-Driven Secondary Data Analysis","Learn how to develop and test theoretically-driven research questions in secondary data sources. Logic of theory building and testing, how to conduct statistical analyses on testable research questions, and interpret results. There is also a lab component.",""],"PUBHLTH 211A":["PUBHLTH","Latinos\/Latinas and Medical Care: Contemporary Issues","Introduction to medical anthropological and social science perspectives on Latinos\/Latinas in relation to a number of health and medically-related issues, i.e., immigration, gender, reproduction, culture, social structure, political economy, sexuality, utilization of medical services, and health beliefs.",""],"PUBHLTH 211B":["PUBHLTH","Latinos\/Latinas and Medical Care: Contemporary Issues","Introduction to medical anthropological and social science perspectives on Latinos\/Latinas in relation to a number of health and medically-related issues, i.e., immigration, gender, reproduction, culture, social structure, political economy, sexuality, utilization of medical services, and health beliefs.","CHC\/LAT 211A"],"PUBHLTH 213":["PUBHLTH","Epidemiology in Global Health","Examines major topics in epidemiology and global health. Research topics within these two disciplines are focused on resource-poor communities, with an application to the global world.",""],"PUBHLTH 219":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Health Informatics","Current research in biostatistics, epidemiology, and health informatics. Topics vary from quarter to quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 222":["PUBHLTH","Health Policy and Management","Multidisciplinary inquiry into theory and practice concerned with delivery, quantity, costs of health care for individuals and populations. Explores managerial and policy concerns regarding structure, process, outcomes of health services including the costs, financing, organization, outcomes, and accessibility of care.",""],"PUBHLTH 223":["PUBHLTH","Risk Communication","Examines theory and research related to the communication of scientific information in risk communication contexts, risk perceptions, and behavior as related to decision-making under risk.",""],"PUBHLTH 239":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Health Policy and Management","Current research in health policy and management. Topics vary from quarter to quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 242":["PUBHLTH","Theories of Health Communication","Explores the concepts, constructs, and theories of communication in health and risk contexts. Examines interpersonal, family, organizational, and mediated communicative processes about health care and conditions from a global perspective.",""],"PUBHLTH 244":["PUBHLTH","Health Behavior Theory","Introduces the field of Health Behavior and segues into major theoretical perspectives. Focus on health behavior change from the vantage point of individual health behavior and theoretical abstraction. Explores how to relate theory to behavior-change intervention programs.",""],"PUBHLTH 245":["PUBHLTH","Health Promotion Planning","Introduces strategic planning integral to intervention planning in public health practice and research, emphasizing the fundamental domains of social and behavioral health science and practices. Students develop an intervention plan for a specific health problem, health behavior, and target population.",""],"PUBHLTH 246":["PUBHLTH","Social Research Methods","An interactive graduate seminar covering topics related to the research process and study design. Begins with conceptualizing research questions, hypotheses, and then turns to topics in measurement and concludes with experimental, quasi-experimental, and observational study designs.",""],"PUBHLTH 247":["PUBHLTH","Program Evaluation","Introduces methods, tools, and procedures for systematic investigation of the effectiveness of programs in health and social services for disease intervention, prevention, and health promotion. Includes development of program evaluation plans, logic models, contextual frameworks, study designs, and data analyses.",""],"PUBHLTH 248":["PUBHLTH","Fundamentals of Maternal and Child Health - Programs, Problems, and Policy","Overview of issues facing women, children, and families from a public health perspective.  Discusses role of socio-economic, political, biological, environmental factors on population health. Studies historical foundations and current factors impacting Maternal Child Health programs and legislation in the US.",""],"PUBHLTH 250":["PUBHLTH","Health Status and Care Disparities","Expert health care providers present viewpoints and interdisciplinary strategies for addressing sociocultural, economic, gender, age, and other disparities in population health status and care provision.",""],"PUBHLTH 251":["PUBHLTH","Models of Practice and Intervention at the Community Level","Examines and critiques current models, frameworks, theories for.","CHC\/LAT 200A or PUBHLTH 246"],"PUBHLTH 259":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Social and Behavioral Health Sciences","Current research in Social and Behavioral Health Sciences. Topics vary from quarter to quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 264":["PUBHLTH","Introduction to Environmental Health Science","Convergence of agents (chemical, physical, biological, or psychosocial) in environment can emerge as diseases influenced by social, political, and economic factors, allowing them to become rooted in society. How these agents from various spheres come together and impact human health.",""],"PUBHLTH 269":["PUBHLTH","Air Pollution, Climate, and Health","Emission of air pollutants into the atmosphere, physical and meteorological processes that affect transport, and influence on global warming. Concepts of how and where people are most exposed, and how exposures and health effects differ in developed and developing regions.",""],"PUBHLTH 272":["PUBHLTH","Occupational Health Psychology","Introduction to psychological and social factors in the workplace that affect health and productivity. Goal is to support redesign of the workplace and social situations that can reduce stress-related illness risks, and increase humane forms of productivity and competence development.",""],"PUBHLTH 275":["PUBHLTH","Environmental Modeling and Risk Management","Surveys the general principles, basic mathematical methods, and practices of environmental modeling and human health risk assessment. Topics include advection-dispersion models, risk management, and risk perception. Students conduct an original risk assessment as a final group project.","MATH 2A and STATS 7"],"PUBHLTH 277A":["PUBHLTH","Target Organ Toxicology I","Mechanistic analysis of responses occurring in various organ systems of experimental animals and humans exposed to environmental and occupational chemicals and radiation. Review distinctive cellular and tissue structure and physiological function of the various organ systems.",""],"PUBHLTH 277B":["PUBHLTH","Target Organ Toxicology II ","Mechanistic analysis of responses occurring in various organ systems of experimental animals and humans exposed to environmental and occupational chemicals and radiation. Review of distinctive cellular and tissue structure and physiological function of the various organ systems.","PUBHLTH 277A or EHS 206A"],"PUBHLTH 278":["PUBHLTH","Industrial Toxicology","Analysis of responsibilities toxicologists have in industry, including product safety, generating material safety, data sheets, animal testing, ecotoxicological testing, risk\/hazard communication, and assisting industrial hygienists and occupational physicians; emphasis on interdisciplinary nature of industrial toxicology and communication skills.","PUBHLTH 277B or EHS 206B"],"PUBHLTH 279":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Environmental & Occupational Health","Current research in environmental and occupational health. Topics vary from quarter to quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 280":["PUBHLTH","Global Burden of Disease","Introduces composite measures of disease burden, including Disability Adjusted Life Years and their use in prioritizing disease burden at local, regional, and global levels. Focuses on WHO's landmark assessments and introduces DISMOD software for specific analyses.",""],"PUBHLTH 281":["PUBHLTH","Infectious Disease Epidemiology","Geographical distribution of infectious diseases and the health and disease risk in diverse human populations. Introduces basic methods for infectious disease epidemiology and case studies of important diseases. Includes surveillance, outbreak investigation, emerging pathogens, traditional and molecular epidemiology.",""],"PUBHLTH 282":["PUBHLTH","Climate Change and Global Health","Designed for students to examine major topics in climate change and global health. Draws heavily on the literature in order to develop an understanding of micro- and macro-level impacts and drivers with regard to climate change and health.",""],"PUBHLTH 283":["PUBHLTH","Geographic Information Systems for Public Health","Provides a broad introduction to the use of Geographic Information Systems software to carry out projects for visualizing and analyzing spatial data to address significant issues of health care and policy-planning.","PUBH 206"],"PUBHLTH 286":["PUBHLTH","Advanced Geographic Information Systems and Spatial Epidemiology","Students expand their current knowledge of the ArcGIS software to develop advanced geographic-related research questions, learn how to apply spatial epidemiologic methods to public health data, and integrate their skills in a GIS project of their design.","PUBHLTH 283"],"PUBHLTH 287":["PUBHLTH","Qualitative Research Methods in Public Health","General introduction to qualitative research methods for investigating public health questions at various scales from community level to global populations. Emphasizes systematic approaches to the collection, analysis, interpretation of qualitative data.",""],"PUBHLTH 288":["PUBHLTH","Research Proposal Writing in Global Health","Overview of financial support for research in global health and disease prevention. Collaborative agreements, guidelines for proposal writing, team building, budgeting, peer-review process, and transitioning from proposal to research project implementation.",""],"PUBHLTH 289":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Global Health and Disease Prevention","Current research in global health and disease prevention. Topics vary from quarter to quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 290":["PUBHLTH","Special Topics in Public Health","Studies in selected areas of public health. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"PUBHLTH 291A":["PUBHLTH","Seminar: Advances and Challenges in Public Health","Forum for exploring recent advances and challenges in all disciplines of public health research and practice.  Features case studies exemplifying the integration of core competencies with cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes of public health.",""],"PUBHLTH 291B":["PUBHLTH","Seminar: Advances and Challenges in Public Health","Forum for exploring recent advances and challenges in all disciplines of public health research and practice.  Features case studies exemplifying the integration of core competencies with cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes of public health.",""],"PUBHLTH 291C":["PUBHLTH","Seminar: Advances and Challenges in Public Health","Forum for exploring recent advances and challenges in all disciplines of public health research and practice.  Features case studies exemplifying the integration of core competencies with cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes of public health.",""],"PUBHLTH 292":["PUBHLTH","Ethics and Responsible Conduct of Research in Public Health","Issues of scientific integrity and satisfies the requirements for training in public health ethics. Includes guidelines for responsible conduct of research, federal and international codes, administrative review and approval, conflict of interest, and privacy and safety of research participants.",""],"PUBHLTH 293":["PUBHLTH","Foundations of Clinical and Translational Science","Introduces rationale and imperative for clinical translational science and various approaches being developed to speed-up discoveries and their transformation into health care practices. Compares and contrasts current impediments to clinical research with the potential and transformative power of translational science.",""],"PUBHLTH 294":["PUBHLTH","Research Communication in Public Health","Strategies for effective writing and oral presentation of research characteristics and results to various audiences. Includes exercises in writing for the public, for scholarly journals, and at conferences.",""],"PUBHLTH 295":["PUBHLTH","Graduate Practicum and Culminating Experience in Public Health","Provides opportunities for hands-on experience for graduate students at agencies or organizations engaged in public health practice. Students are matched with placement sites based on academic preparation and students' career goals. The practicum report is integrated into the culminating experience.","PUBHLTH 200 and PUBHLTH 244 and PUBHLTH 222 and PUBHLTH 264 and PUBHLTH 207A. PUBHLTH 200 with a grade of B or better. PUBHLTH 244 with a grade of B or better. PUBHLTH 222 with a grade of B or better. PUBHLTH 264 with a grade of B or better. PUBHLTH 207A with a grade of B or better"],"PUBHLTH 296":["PUBHLTH","Doctoral Dissertation Research and Writing","Dissertation research with Public Health faculty.","Advancement to candidacy."],"PUBHLTH 297":["PUBHLTH","Research Design and Proposal Writing","Evaluate strengths of research findings based on methods used by researchers to develop research proposals. Components such as collaborative agreements, guidelines for proposal writing, budgeting, peer-review process, and transitioning from proposal to research project implementation are addressed.",""],"PUBHLTH 298":["PUBHLTH","Directed Studies in Public Health","Directed study with Public Health faculty.",""],"PUBHLTH 299":["PUBHLTH","Independent Study in Public Health ","Independent research with Public Health faculty.",""],"PUBHLTH 399":["PUBHLTH","University Teaching","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"REL STD 5A":["REL STD","World Religions I","An introduction to the history, doctrine, culture, and writing of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.",""],"REL STD 5B":["REL STD","World Religions II","An introduction to various religious traditions in selected areas of the world--including India and South Asia, East Asia, Africa, and the Americas.",""],"REL STD 5C":["REL STD","Religious Dialogue","Lectures and discussion on controversial topics in religion: sexual morality; religious violence; science; treatment of women and girls; religious truth, American Constitutional matters; secularization; the future of religion, and other topics.",""],"REL STD 17":["REL STD","An Economic Approach to Religion","Introduction to how basic economic concepts such as demand, supply, consumption, production, competition, free-riding, innovation, regulation, and rent-seeking can be applied to understand observed religious behavior.",""],"REL STD 21":["REL STD","Philosophy and Religion","Examines the intersection of religion and philosophy from a standpoint that does not presuppose previous academic study of either.  Both Western and Eastern traditions and perspectives may be explored.",""],"REL STD 61":["REL STD","Gender and Religion","Introduces the topic of religion in a feminist context by performing cross-cultural exploration of gender, authority, and faith in various traditions. Study includes (but is not limited to) writings of contemporary Jewish, Christian, and Muslim feminists.",""],"REL STD 100":["REL STD","Topics in the Study of Religion","The intersection of religious belief and practices with selected subjects of continuing interest.",""],"REL STD 103":["REL STD","Topics in the Philosophy of Religion","Critical examination of philosophical concepts in religious scripture and theology, e.g., the nature and existence of God, miracles, the problem of evil, and divine command theories in ethics. May include any religious tradition.",""],"REL STD 110":["REL STD","Thinking about Religion: Theories and Methodologies","A survey and investigation of the major thinkers, theories, and methodologies in the study of religions. Designed to develop the student's ability to analyze and articulate theoretical arguments; includes a paper on relevant Religious Studies topics.",""],"REL STD 110W":["REL STD","Thinking about Religion: Theories and Methodologies","A survey and investigation of the major thinkers, theories, and methodologies in the study of religions. Designed to develop the student's ability to analyze and articulate theoretical arguments in writing; includes a paper on relevant Religious Studies topics.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"REL STD 115":["REL STD","Religion and World Politics","Examines the relationship between religion and world politics historically and today, focusing on connections with peace\/war, democracy, human rights, secularism(s), and globalization. Covers major debates, scholarship, concepts, and theories through class exercises, exams, and essays.","POL SCI 41A or INTL ST 11 or INTL ST 12 or REL STD 5A or REL STD 5B or REL STD 5C"],"REL STD 120":["REL STD","Topics in Asian Religious Traditions","Studies involving (but not limited to) Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Jainism, Sikhism, Daoism, Shinto or Shamanism, including both elite and doctrinal aspects and forms of more popular religiosity.",""],"REL STD 122":["REL STD","Ancient India","Examines the visual and religious history of the region defined as \"India\" today, but necessarily encompassing modern Bangladesh and Pakistan.  Culminates with the supposed Golden Age of the Gupta empire and its far-reaching legacies.",""],"REL STD 123":["REL STD","Medieval India","Begins with the Gupta period's aesthetic legacies in South Asia's architecture, sculpture, and painting. Explores the dispersal of Islam throughout South Asia, including the Muslim communities of southern India.",""],"REL STD 124":["REL STD","Topics in Modern Indian Religion","Topics in religions of the Indian subcontinent including, but not confined to, Hinduism, Jainism, Sikhism, Islam, and Buddhism from the founding of the Mughal Empire in 1526 to the creation of the several modern states of the Indian subcontinent.",""],"REL STD 130":["REL STD","Jewish, Islamic, and Middle Eastern Religious Traditions","Character and evolution of Egyptian, Jewish, Zoroastrian, Muslim, and other religious communities of the region from their formative periods to the present era.",""],"REL STD 130D":["REL STD","History of Antisemitism","Survey of the history of antisemitism, ancient to modern. Topics include medieval religious anti-Judaism, persecution of Jews and Judaism during the Crusades and the Inquisition, the rise of modern racial antisemitism, Nazi antisemitism, and the persistence of antisemitism since 1945.",""],"REL STD 130F":["REL STD","Jews and Power","Examines the relationship between the Jewish people and political power over a 3500 year period. How have Jews preserved their communal interests and personal safety? How have they defined the proper relationship of the people to political authority.",""],"REL STD 131A":["REL STD","History of Zoroastrianism","Reviews major trends in the history of Zoroastrianism.",""],"REL STD 140":["REL STD","Early Western Religious Traditions","Religious perspectives of the Mediterranean and European regions from the earliest times to approximately 1500 C.E.",""],"REL STD 150":["REL STD","Religion in the Americas","Religious belief and social context in North and South America from the earliest human societies to the present.",""],"REL STD 160":["REL STD","Diaspora Religions","Examination of what happens to belief and practice as religious communities are scattered geographically.",""],"REL STD 170":["REL STD","Topics in Comparative Studies in Religion","Literary, historical, or philosophical comparison of selected religious and quasi-religious traditions, their beliefs and practices.",""],"REL STD 199":["REL STD","Independent Study","Directed reading and research in consultation with a faculty member.  Substantial written work required.",""],"REL STD 399":["REL STD","University Teaching    ","Limited to teaching assistants.",""],"ROTC 10L":["ROTC","Military Science-Basic Leadership Laboratory","Provides hands-on and practical military science material covered in the corresponding military science courses.",""],"ROTC 11":["ROTC","Military Science - Personal Development","Focuses on life skills such as physical fitness, nutrition, and time management while providing an introduction to military knowledge, customs, and skills.",""],"ROTC 12":["ROTC","Military Science - Leadership I","Focuses on the fundamentals of leadership, Army leadership values, ethics, coaching, and mentoring techniques.",""],"ROTC 13":["ROTC","Applied Leadership in Small Unit Operations","Focuses on leadership at the tactical level and includes instruction in fundamental military skills such as map reading, land navigation, squad and platoon operations, and resource planning techniques.",""],"ROTC 21":["ROTC","Leadership and Ethics","Explores the dimensions of creative and innovative tactical leadership strategies and styles by examining team dynamics and two historical leadership theories that form the basis of the Army leadership requirements model.",""],"ROTC 22":["ROTC","Team Leadership II","Explores team dynamics and two historical leadership theories that form the basis of the Army leadership requirements model.",""],"ROTC 23":["ROTC","Tactical Leadership II","Examines the challenges of leading tactical teams in the OE. Highlights dimensions of terrain analysis, patrolling, and operation orders.",""],"ROTC 100L":["ROTC","Military Science-Advanced Leadership Laboratory","Provides hands-on and practical exercises for the military science material covered in the corresponding military science courses as well as leader training through practical application of the Leadership Development Program.",""],"ROTC 131":["ROTC","Adaptive Team Leadership I","Challenges cadets to study, practice, and evaluate adaptive leadership skills as they are presented with challenging scenarios related to squad tactical operations. Cadets receive systematic and specified feedback on their leadership attributes and core leader competencies.","ROTC 11 and ROTC 12 and ROTC 13 and ROTC 21 and ROTC 22 and ROTC 23"],"ROTC 132":["ROTC","Adaptive Team Leadership II","Provides cadets systematic and specific feedback on their leadership attributes and core leader competencies. Based on such feedback, as well as their own self-evaluations, cadets continue to develop their leadership and critical thinking abilities.","ROTC 11 and ROTC 12 and ROTC 13 and ROTC 21 and ROTC 22 and ROTC 23"],"ROTC 133":["ROTC","Tactical Leadership III","Uses increasingly intense situational leadership challenges to build cadet awareness and skills in leading small units. Skills in decision-making, persuading, and motivating team members when \"under fire\" are explored, evaluated, and developed.","ROTC 11 and ROTC 12 and ROTC 13 and ROTC 21 and ROTC 22 and ROTC 23"],"ROTC 141":["ROTC","Leadership III","Transitions the focus of student learning from being trained, mentored, and evaluated as a cadet to learning how to train, mentor, and evaluate cadets. Cadets begin to learn the duties and responsibilities of an Army staff officer.","ROTC 131 and ROTC 132 and ROTC 133"],"ROTC 142":["ROTC","Developmental Leadership II","Requires students to continue to train, mentor, and evaluate underclass cadets. Cadets learn to safely conduct training by understanding and employing the Composite Risk Management Process and the Comprehensive Soldier Fitness (CSF) program.","ROTC 131 and ROTC 132 and ROTC 133 and ROTC 141"],"ROTC 143":["ROTC","Officership","Explores the dynamics of leading in the complex situations of current military operations in the OE. Cadets examine differences in customs and courtesies, military law, principles of war, and rules of engagement in the face of international terrorism.","ROTC 131 and ROTC 132 and ROTC 133 and ROTC 141 and ROTC 142"],"ROTC 151":["ROTC","Military History","Develops an understanding of the role military officers have played in the defense of our country and the advancement of its military.",""],"ROTC 197":["ROTC","Military Science Independent Studies","Replaces any of the 12 core ROTC courses for students that are unable to attend the scheduled class time due to class conflicts or other extenuating circumstances. This course curriculum will mirror the course it is replacing.",""],"RUSSIAN 1A":["RUSSIAN","Fundamentals of Russian","Focuses on reading, comprehension, basic composition, and conversation skills, and gives the student an initial exposure to the Russian cultural scene.","Placement into RUSSIAN 1A."],"RUSSIAN 1B":["RUSSIAN","Fundamentals of Russian","Focuses on reading, comprehension, basic composition, and conversation skills, and gives the student an initial exposure to the Russian cultural scene.","RUSSIAN 1A. RUSSIAN 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into RUSSIAN 1B is also accepted."],"RUSSIAN 1C":["RUSSIAN","Fundamentals of Russian","Focuses on reading, comprehension, basic composition, and conversation skills, and gives the student an initial exposure to the Russian cultural scene.","RUSSIAN 1AB or RUSSIAN 1B. RUSSIAN 1AB with a grade of C or better. RUSSIAN 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into RUSSIAN 1C is also accepted."],"RUSSIAN 2A":["RUSSIAN","Intermediate Russian","Students read simple passages from contemporary Russian literary texts and newspapers. Development of oral skills and exposure to Russian culture continue.","RUSSIAN 1BC or RUSSIAN 1C. RUSSIAN 1BC with a grade of C or better. RUSSIAN 1C with a grade of C or better. Placement into RUSSIAN 2A is also accepted."],"RUSSIAN 2B":["RUSSIAN","Intermediate Russian","Students read simple passages from contemporary Russian literary texts and newspapers. Development of oral skills and exposure to Russian culture continue.","RUSSIAN 2A. RUSSIAN 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into RUSSIAN 2B is also accepted."],"RUSSIAN 2C":["RUSSIAN","Intermediate Russian","Students read simple passages from contemporary Russian literary texts and newspapers. Development of oral skills and exposure to Russian culture continue.","RUSSIAN 2B. RUSSIAN 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into RUSSIAN 2C is also accepted."],"RUSSIAN 50":["RUSSIAN","Topics in Russian Culture      ","Study of varied topics in Russian culture, area studies, and society, both in the present and in historical perspective.",""],"RUSSIAN 99":["RUSSIAN","Special Studies Russian","Special studies under faculty supervision.",""],"RUSSIAN 150":["RUSSIAN","Topics in Russian Literature","Examines major themes in Russian literature, film, and other media from the eighteenth to twenty-first centuries. Taught in English.",""],"RUSSIAN 190":["RUSSIAN","Topics in Russian Language Through Film","Uses Russian films of the late 20th century to enhance students' language skills and deepen their cultural knowledge. Work involves intensive conversation, reading and listening comprehension, and the acquisition of written skills and grammatical accuracy. Conducted primarily in Russian.","r corequisite: RUSSIAN 2C"],"RUSSIAN 199":["RUSSIAN","Independent Study","Independent study under direct faculty supervision.",""],"SOCECOL 1":["SOCECOL","Introduction to Social Ecology","Introduction to the ecological paradigm through a consideration of the classic and recent works in human, cultural, and social ecology. Emphasis on the use of the ecological paradigm as an aid in analyzing societal problems and prescribing for their amelioration.",""],"SOCECOL 10":["SOCECOL","Research Design","An introduction to the logic behind and methods of designing and conducting research studies in Social Ecology. Topics include how to measure variables of interest, identifying causal relationships, sampling, survey research methods, experiments, quasi-experimental designs, and ethics in research.",""],"SOCECOL 13":["SOCECOL","Statistical Analysis in Social Ecology","Introduction to the techniques of statistical analysis in Social Ecology. Topics include probability, statistical inference, significance testing, univariate descriptive statistics, and multivariate analysis from an interdisciplinary perspective.",""],"SOCECOL H20A":["SOCECOL","Honors: Critical Issues on the Social Sciences","Major themes, methods, and works in the social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective. Each quarter focuses on a different topic. Weekly seminars emphasizing development of critical thinking skills and quantitative analysis through written work are integral to the course.",""],"SOCECOL H20B":["SOCECOL","Honors: Critical Issues on the Social Sciences","Major themes, methods, and works in the social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective. Each quarter focuses on a different topic. Weekly seminars emphasizing development of critical thinking skills and quantitative analysis through written work are integral to the course.","SOC SCI H1E or SOCECOL H20A"],"SOCECOL H20C":["SOCECOL","Honors: Critical Issues on the Social Sciences","Major themes, methods, and works in the social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective. Each quarter focuses on a different topic. Weekly seminars emphasizing development of critical thinking skills and quantitative analysis through written work are integral to the course.","SOC SCI H1F or SOCECOL H20B"],"SOCECOL 74A":["SOCECOL","Moral Development and Just Communities","A three-quarter sequence exploring interpersonal, personal, and social issues based on principles of fairness and justice. Both the living environment of a University residence hall and selected institutions of society are analyzed in terms of moral development theory.",""],"SOCECOL 74B":["SOCECOL","Moral Development and Just Communities","A three-quarter sequence exploring interpersonal, personal, and social issues based on principles of fairness and justice. Both the living environment of a University residence hall and selected institutions of society are analyzed in terms of moral development theory.","SOCECOL 74A"],"SOCECOL 74C":["SOCECOL","Moral Development and Just Communities","A three-quarter sequence exploring interpersonal, personal, and social issues based on principles of fairness and justice. Both the living environment of a University residence hall and selected institutions of society are analyzed in terms of moral development theory.","SOCECOL 74B"],"SOCECOL 100":["SOCECOL","Special Topics in Social Ecology","Special topics courses are offered from time to time. In general they will focus on a topic from interdisciplinary perspectives. Course content varies with the interest of the instructor.",""],"SOCECOL 104W":["SOCECOL","Community Archiving in Social Ecology","Students are trained in community archiving, oral history, and ethnography in order to produce material for submission to a student-initiated Social Ecology community archive housed in the UC Irvine Special Collections section of the UC Irvine libraries.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. Field Study authorization required for enrollment. "],"SOCECOL 106W":["SOCECOL","Building, Analyzing, and Sustaining a Digital Media Archive","Students are trained in contributing to and managing a digital media archive. Provided an opportunity to use resources in the archive to develop policy proposals to solve real-world problems at the intersection of crime, law, and society.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement. Authorization for field study."],"SOCECOL 111W":["SOCECOL","Advanced Research Methods","For students planning to conduct senior research projects or apply to graduate school in social research fields. Topics include reviewing literature, preparing a research proposal, protecting human subjects, citing scholarly work, building measures, estimating sample size, interview and presentation skills.","SOCECOL 10 and SOCECOL 13. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCECOL 118":["SOCECOL","Domestic Violence","General perspectives about domestic violence and theoretical accounts about what causes such behavior.",""],"SOCECOL 119":["SOCECOL","Violence in Intimate Relationships","Responses to various forms of domestic violence, such as intimate partner violence and child abuse. Covers barriers to reporting to the police, and prosecutors and courts. Human services, such as safety planning for victims, treatment programs, and restorative justice approaches.",""],"SOCECOL E127":["SOCECOL","Nuclear Environments","Understanding the impact of the nuclear age on the environment and human health through interrelated developments of nuclear power and nuclear weapons. The early years of weapon development, catastrophic environmental pollution, perils of nuclear power in the U.S. and Russia.",""],"SOCECOL 183A":["SOCECOL","Global and International Studies Forum","A faculty-student forum featuring lectures from a variety of institutions with discussion issues related to Global and International Studies.",""],"SOCECOL 183B":["SOCECOL","Seminar in Mediation","Student develop mediation skills and refine knowledge in the practice and theory of conflict resolution. Students who complete this course may serve as mediators in the Campus Mediation Program. Course is a prerequisite to completing Indep Study as an intern.",""],"SOCECOL 186A":["SOCECOL","Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability I","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability. Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum is also required. Seminar utilized to analyze forum presentations.  Prepare bibliography.",""],"SOCECOL 186B":["SOCECOL","Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability II","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability. Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum is also required. Seminar utilized to analyze forum presentations.  Prepare research proposal.","BIO SCI 191A or SOCECOL 186A or EARTHSS 190A"],"SOCECOL 186CW":["SOCECOL","Writing\/Senior Seminar on Global Sustainability III","Students attend weekly seminar to discuss current issues in global sustainability.  Weekly attendance at Global Sustainability Forum also is required.  Seminar utilized to analyze Forum presentations and to prepare senior research paper.  Prepare\/write research paper under direction of faculty member.","BIO SCI 191B or EARTHSS 190B or SOCECOL 186B. BIO SCI 191B or EARTHSS 190B or SOCECOL 186B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCECOL 189":["SOCECOL","Global Service Scholars Advanced Seminar","For students who are accepted into the Global Service Scholars Program. Provides advanced training in empathy and compassion, and prepares students for their summer international field experience.","PSCI 192B "],"SOCECOL 190":["SOCECOL","Applied Statistics in Social and Behavioral Research","Covers statistical techniques used to describe and make generalizations about phenomena represented by data. Hands-on experience in data analysis and interpretation using statistical software (SPSS, STATA) is emphasized. Topics include data visualization, ANOVA, multiple regression, and categorical data analyses.","SOCECOL 13"],"SOCECOL H190A":["SOCECOL","Honors Research","Independent work on an individual research project in addition to participation in a mini proseminar in which faculty discuss their ongoing research.  Students prepare a written proposal for a research project.",""],"SOCECOL H190B":["SOCECOL","Honors Research","Independent work on an individual research project in a addition to participation in a mini proseminar in which faculty discuss their ongoing research. Students prepare a  written proposal for a research project.","SOCECOL H190A"],"SOCECOL H190W":["SOCECOL","Honors Research","Students write up their honors research project (H190A-B) and prepare an oral report which is presented at the honors seminar.","SOCECOL H190B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCECOL 194W":["SOCECOL","Naturalistic Field Research","Introduction to alternative models of experiential learning and to various methods of observation, assessment, and evaluation. Introduction to the nature of organizations and ethical issues that emerge from research and intervention in natural settings.","SOCECOL 10. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCECOL 195":["SOCECOL","Field Study","Community engagement to facilitate civic education through field research experience, social intervention, and professionalization. Small group instruction, discussion, writing, and presentations synthesizing students' experiences in the field with theory, paradigms, and ideas learned about in their course work.","SOCECOL 10"],"SOCECOL 195A":["SOCECOL","Advanced Field Study","While completing 10 hours of field work per week, students become acquainted with the goals and activities of their placement and will work closely with the placement supervisor and AFS instructor to identify the scope of a research project.","SOCECOL 10 and SOCECOL 13. Acceptance to Advanced Field Study required."],"SOCECOL 195B":["SOCECOL","Advanced Field Study","While completing 10 hours of field work per week, students implement their research project through data collection and observations which allow them to reflect on, apply, and synthesize their academic training through observations and experiences at the placement.","SOCECOL 195A. Acceptance to Advanced Field Study required."],"SOCECOL 195CW":["SOCECOL","Advanced Field Study","While completing 10 hours per week of field work, students write and finalize their AFS Client Project in consultation with the placement and the FS instructor, and make a final written and oral presentation to the placement and invited guests.","SOCECOL 195B. Acceptance to Advanced Field Study required. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCECOL 195W":["SOCECOL","Field Study Writing Seminar","Community engagement to promote civic education through field research experience, and the opportunity to study social issues and the environments where they occur. Develop discipline-specific writing and communication skills, methodology, and integrate information from multiple sources.   Course may be offered online.","SOCECOL 10. Cumulative UC GPA of 2.0. Authorization is required. Successful completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCECOL 198":["SOCECOL","Directed Studies","Directed study with Social Ecology faculty.",""],"SOCECOL 199":["SOCECOL","Special Studies","Special Studies with Social Ecology faculty.",""],"SOCECOL 200":["SOCECOL","Seminar in Social Ecology","Students are introduced to the classic and contemporary literature of human and social ecology and are expected to use the ecological paradigm to analyze social phenomena of interest to the differing subprograms.",""],"SOCECOL 264A":["SOCECOL","Data Analysis","Provides an appreciation and understanding of statistics necessary to conduct applied research. Topics include approaches to and presentation of data, robust statistics, standardization techniques, multivariate regression, and analysis of variance.",""],"SOCECOL 264B":["SOCECOL","Data Analysis","Provides an appreciation and understanding of statistics necessary to conduct applied research. Topics include approaches to and presentation of data, robust statistics, standardization techniques, multivariate regression, and analysis of variance.","SOCECOL 264A"],"SOCECOL 266D":["SOCECOL","Analysis of Survival Data","Provides an introduction to survival analysis methods for the analysis of change in discrete dependent variables. Focuses on data collection strategies for obtaining longitudinal data and continuous-time hazards models. Communicates the variety and power of multivariate hazard models.",""],"SOCECOL 272A":["SOCECOL","Structural Equation Modeling I","The general structural equation model is developed including path models, recursive and nonrecursive structural models, multiple indicator models, and confirmatory factor models. Use of LISREL and other software for estimating model parameters is covered.","SOCECOL 264A and SOCECOL 264B"],"SOCECOL 272B":["SOCECOL","Structural Equation Modeling II: Longitudinal and Advanced Topics","Provides hands-on experience with longitudinal and advanced structural equation models and is of interest to students from a range of disciplines. Topics covered include confirmatory factor, latent growth curve, general growth mixture, and multi-level modeling.","SOCECOL 272A"],"SOCECOL 275":["SOCECOL","Special Topics in Social Ecology","Topics covered vary with interests of the instructor.",""],"SOCECOL 291":["SOCECOL","Program Evaluation","Students are introduced to the use of research techniques and statistical methods in assessing the effectiveness of social programs. Different evaluative models are discussed using examples of actual program evaluations.",""],"SOCECOL 295":["SOCECOL","Masters Thesis Research & Writing","Independent research with Social Ecology faculty.","Advancement to candidacy."],"SOCECOL 296":["SOCECOL","Doctoral Dissertation Research & Writing","Dissertation research with Social Ecology faculty.","Advancement to Candidacy."],"SOCECOL 297":["SOCECOL","Field Study","Field studies in Social Ecology.",""],"SOCECOL 298":["SOCECOL","Directed Studies","Directed study with Social Ecology faculty.",""],"SOCECOL 299":["SOCECOL","Independent Study","Independent study with Social Ecology faculty.",""],"SOCECOL 399":["SOCECOL","University Supervised Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"SPPS 40":["SPPS","Social Policy and Public Service","An introduction to the basic theories and principles of public policy. Students examine various influences on the development of public policy and the principle actors in the process, and learn to identify tools and techniques employed in policy making.",""],"SPPS 70A":["SPPS","Race and Ethnicity","Focuses on racial and ethnic relations in the United States and compares them with those found in other societies. Analyzes the conditions that favor either cooperation and integration or rivalry, tension, and conflict. Appraises strategies for reducing and resolving conflicts.",""],"SPPS 101A":["SPPS","Immigration, Nation, and Media","Examines media shapes and reflects public opinion on immigration and its representation of immigrants, citizens, and ideas about the nation, and who belongs and who is a potential threat; as well as the relationship between scholars and journalists.",""],"SPPS 102":["SPPS","Critical Investigations into Humanitarianism in Africa","Explores the complex phenomenon of aid to Africa (emergency and development aid), and the representational, cultural, historical, and other reasons why some participants and many observers critique it. Students occasionally engage with peers and faculty in African institutions.",""],"SPPS H190A":["SPPS","Honors Research Workshop","Student develops a 10-15-page prospectus of research for the honors thesis which includes: the research question, literature review, methods of investigation, and bibliography. Student selects a faculty mentor who will supervise thesis research and writing in winter and spring.",""],"SPPS H190B":["SPPS","Honors Thesis Research","The student initiates and completes data collection for the honors thesis. A faculty mentor provides supervision and feedback on thesis chapters.","SSCI H190A or SPPS H190A"],"SPPS H190C":["SPPS","Honors Thesis","The student completes, with the approval of the faculty mentor, an honors thesis containing: statement of the problem, literature review, research hypotheses, methods of investigation, results, discussion, and bibliography.","SSCI H190B or SPPS H190B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SPPS 193A":["SPPS","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and underserved communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SSCI 70C or SOCL 63. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SPPS 193B":["SPPS","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and underserved communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SSCI 193A"],"SPPS 193C":["SPPS","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and underserved communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SSCI 193B"],"SPPS 193CW":["SPPS","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and under-served communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SSCI 193B"],"SOC SCI 1A":["SOC SCI","Principles in the Social Sciences","Introduction to various disciplines within the social sciences. Provides an interdisciplinary perspective on understanding human behavior and social institutions, including interpersonal, economic, and cultural activities.",""],"SOC SCI H1E":["SOC SCI","Honors: Critical Issues on the Social Sciences","Major themes, methods, and works in the social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective. Each quarter focuses on a different topic. Weekly seminars emphasizing development of critical thinking skills and quantitative analysis through written work are integral to the course.",""],"SOC SCI H1F":["SOC SCI","Honors: Critical Issues on the Social Sciences","Major themes, methods, and works in the social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective. Each quarter focuses on a different topic. Weekly seminars emphasizing development of critical thinking skills and quantitative analysis through written work are integral to the course.","SOC SCI H1E or SOCECOL H20A"],"SOC SCI H1G":["SOC SCI","Honors: Critical Issues on the Social Sciences","Major themes, methods, and works in the social sciences from an interdisciplinary perspective. Each quarter focuses on a different topic. Weekly seminars emphasizing development of critical thinking skills and quantitative analysis through written work are integral to the course.","SOC SCI H1F or SOCECOL H20B"],"SOC SCI 2A":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Social Science Analysis","Introduction to social science research and analytical models. Theory construction and use of research methods in an interdisciplinary context.  Discussion of the application of social science research to public policy.  Computer laboratories develop creative thinking, graphing, and data presentation skills.",""],"SOC SCI 3A":["SOC SCI","Computer-Based Research in the Social Sciences","Focuses on the data manipulation, data visualization, and information searching techniques. Hands-on experience in hypothesis testing, mapping, graphics, and data arrays.",""],"SOC SCI 4A":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Global Studies","Ongoing historical processes that increase global integration, the social, economic, and political interdependence of different regions, cultures, and peoples. Topics include ancient empires, colonialism, nationalism, industrialization, modern imperialism and warfare, decolonization, global social movements, conflict, inequality, and global governance.",""],"SOC SCI 5A":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Human Geography","Human behavior in a geographical context. Spatial patterns and organization of the cultural, social, and economic activities of man as imposed on and influenced by the earth's physical setting.",""],"SOC SCI 5B":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Physical Geography","An introduction to the physical world we live in. Distribution and dynamics of the earth's air, water, and solid crust. Concepts and principles from climatology and geology. Selected examples from North America and beyond.",""],"SOC SCI 5D":["SOC SCI","US & World Geography","Survey of general geographical principles and facts on a world scale, as well as introduction to the broad regional and resource geography of the U.S., emphasizing in particular the interactions of physical and cultural factors.",""],"SOC SCI 10A":["SOC SCI","Probability and Statistics in Social Sciences I","Introduction to the variety of statistical applications in the social sciences. Descriptive statistics. Measures of central tendency and dispersion. Percentile ranks. Standardization and normal approximation. Basic probability theory focuses on application to statistical inference and binomial distribution. Laboratory required.","SOC SCI 3A"],"SOC SCI 10B":["SOC SCI","Probability and Statistics in Social Sciences II","Introduction to statistical inference, sampling distribution, standard error.  Hypothesis tests for proportions and means. Inferential techniques for nominal variables including chi-square, study measures of strengths, significance of relationships between variables, assumptions, data requirements, and types of error in significance tests.","SOC SCI 10A"],"SOC SCI 10C":["SOC SCI","Probability and Statistics in Social Sciences III","Focus on correlation, regression, and control for effects of variables. One-way and two-way factorial analysis of variance. A priori and a posteriori comparisons.  Introduction to repeated measures design and non-parametric statistics. Discuss use of statistics in newspapers and popular magazines.","SOC SCI 10B"],"SOC SCI 11A":["SOC SCI","Barter to Bitcoin: Society, Technology and the Future of Money","Digital money has captured the broad imagination of speculators, coders, regulators, criminals and the mass media. Course puts this change in context: how do we understand money as a social, political and technological phenomenon?.",""],"SOC SCI 12":["SOC SCI","Global Political Ideologies","An overview of the major political ideologies shaping the current world order and global conflict. Topics include liberalism, democracy, nationalism, capitalism, communism, socialism, fascism, neoliberalism, clash of civilizations, sectarian violence, populist nationalism, and de-globalization.",""],"SOC SCI 15":["SOC SCI","Global Political Economy","The global economy as an integrated system. The rise of world trade, capitalism, national economies, market cycles, competing economic ideologies, development, globalization, transnational labor, multinational corporations, and the role of UN, World Bank, WTO, and the IMF in global governance.",""],"SOC SCI 16":["SOC SCI","Human Rights and Global Governance","Historical development of civil, political rights and the rise of human rights in international law. Explores role, and limitations, of the UN, ICJ, and ICC in global governance. Reconceptualizing democracy and political representation in a postnational 21st century.",""],"SOC SCI 17":["SOC SCI","Global Environmental Issues","Examines problems such as global climate change, growing human populations, fisheries depletion, ocean acidification, biodiversity loss, deforestation, and food security. Introduces political, social, and economic factors contributing to environmental issues and their disproportional impacts on the world's poor and minorities.",""],"SOC SCI 20":["SOC SCI","Model United Nations","Focuses on simulations of the foreign policy pursuits of selected countries in the international community. Emphasis placed on understanding the rules of debate, as well as the policy positions of the student's selected country in the United Nations.",""],"SOC SCI 40":["SOC SCI","Social Policy and Public Service","An introduction to the basic theories and principles of public policy. Students examine various influences on the development of public policy and the principle actors in the process, and learn to identify tools and techniques employed in policy making.",""],"SOC SCI 66":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Gangs ","Introduces students to street gang subculture and explores risk factors associated with gang membership. Students develop a working definition for street gang and understand the difference between social and legal definitions. Also explores the connection between prison and street gangs.",""],"SOC SCI 70C":["SOC SCI","Comparing Cultures","Introduces students to the scope of cross-cultural comparisons by analyzing the theories, methodologies, and facts utilized by anthropologists, sociologists, social psychologists, political scientists, and historians in comparing cultures.",""],"SOC SCI 78A":["SOC SCI","Asian American Histories","Examines and compares diverse experiences of major Asian American groups since the mid-nineteenth century. Topics include origins of emigration; the formation and transformation of community; gender and family life; changing roles of Asian Americans in American society. Formerly ASIANAM 60A.",""],"SOC SCI 78B":["SOC SCI","Asian American Communities","Examines the renewal of Asian immigration following World War II. Explores contemporary Asian American populations and communities in the U.S., and the impact of contemporary Asian immigration on the U.S. political economy and social order.",""],"SOC SCI 78C":["SOC SCI","Asian Americans and Race ","Analyzes the Asian American experience in comparative perspective, which includes comparisons of different ethnic and racial groups, and across gender and class. Possible topics include labor, economy, politics, migration, nation, popular culture, gender, family, sexuality, and multiraciality.",""],"SOC SCI 89":["SOC SCI","Special Topics in Social Sciences","Studies in selected areas of Social Sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOC SCI 102A":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Geographic Information Systems in Social Sciences","Hands-on laboratory course introduces students to the fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology using social science applications.  Students learn to organize, manipulate, and display spatial data leading to the design of their own GIS research project.",""],"SOC SCI 102B":["SOC SCI","Intermediate Geographic Information Systems in Social Sciences","Expands Geographic Information Systems (GIS) skills to more advanced theories and concepts in the spatial analysis of social science issues and particularly to analyzing and interpreting spatial data.  Students develop and complete a GIS research project of their own choosing.","SOC SCI 102A"],"SOC SCI 103A":["SOC SCI","Game Theory and Politics I","Introduction to game theory and a survey of its political applications. Examples of topics covered include voting in small committees, legislatures, and mass elections; interest group activities and environmental issues; institutional design, and the evolution of cooperative behavior.",""],"SOC SCI 103B":["SOC SCI","Game Theory and Politics II","More advanced game theory and its political applications, beginning where Game Theory and Politics I ends.  Examples of topics covered include revolutions; arms race; spatial models of party competition; political manipulation; political coalitions and their power.","POL SCI 130A or ECON 116A"],"SOC SCI 115D":["SOC SCI","International Business","Introduction to conducting business in the international arena, decision making in the organization, and globalization of markets and production.  Topics covered range from tax and finance to ethics, marketing, and more.  Continuing corporate regulatory scandals discussed.",""],"SOC SCI 119":["SOC SCI","Special Topics in Geography","Studies in selected areas of geography. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOC SCI 120":["SOC SCI","Transnational Gangs","Examines the internationalization of U.S. domestic street gangs.  The relationship between California gangs Mara Salvatrucha and 18th Street and Mexico\/Central American gangs is assessed.  Specified topics include:  mobilization, migration, territorialism, culture, organization, and use of technology.",""],"SOC SCI 121T":["SOC SCI","Voting and Political Manipulation","Introduction to social choice and cooperative games. Topics include majority rule, types of voting methods, apportionment and proportional representation, agenda manipulation, coalition formation, voting power, political consequences of electoral laws.",""],"SOC SCI 132":["SOC SCI","Veterans in History and Society","Explores key concepts, issues, and trends in the interdisciplinary field of veterans studies. Students gain a deep understanding of the ways that social scientists and historians have analyzed the identities, experiences, and worldviews of U.S. military veterans.",""],"SOC SCI 133":["SOC SCI","Veterans' Transitions","Provides veteran and non-veteran students with a comprehensive and academically rigorous overview of the ways and means through which diverse communities of veterans have made and continue to make the complex and multi-faceted transition from active military.",""],"SOC SCI 134W":["SOC SCI","Veterans' Voices","Uses the medium of academic writing to develop a broad understanding and appreciation for the wide range of worldviews, priorities, and values embodied in the creative production and activism of diverse U.S. military veterans.",""],"SOC SCI 152A":["SOC SCI","Non-Government Organization (NGO) Fundamentals","Introduction to non-governmental organizations, including their role in U.S. society and the international community. Explores varying definitions of NGOs and the characteristics held in common by all NGOs.",""],"SOC SCI 152C":["SOC SCI","American Public Policy","Focuses on the development and implementation of public policy in the United States. Lectures cover theoretical models of the policy process as well as significant problems facing contemporary American decision-makers.",""],"SOC SCI 163A":["SOC SCI","Urban America        ","Students examine the historical, social, political, and economic factors that contributed to the construction of the American urban context, one that is poverty concentrated and racially\/ethnically segregated. Students also critically assess the consequence of growing up in America's urban neighborhoods.",""],"SOC SCI 164":["SOC SCI","Chicanx\/Latinx Education","Provides a historical and empirical overview of educational issues affecting diverse Latinx low-income, immigrant, and U.S. born student populations enrolled in American schools. Examines policies and issues such as DACA, generation, culture, racism, and gender on educational mobility.",""],"SOC SCI 164B":["SOC SCI","Domestic Gangs","Examines the history and development of California street gangs and the role of historical events in that development. Students will be able to contrast and compare gang cohort behaviors between some of the major gangs in California.",""],"SOC SCI 164C":["SOC SCI","Prison Gangs","Examines the growth and spread of prison gangs throughout the country. Relationships between prison and street gangs, and possible relationships with foreign drug trafficking organizations studied. Violence examined as the standard to establish dominance in and out of prison.",""],"SOC SCI 164D":["SOC SCI","Juvenile Gangs","Examines risk factors that can be used to predict gang membership. Compares generational with non-generational gangs and develops a working sociological definition that can be used to identify street gangs. Myths about juveniles, street gangs.",""],"SOC SCI 165":["SOC SCI","Chicano\/Latino Families","Introduction to the research, literature, and issues surrounding the topic of Chicano\/Latino families including cultural history, contemporary issues, organization of family, traditions, lifestyles, values, beliefs, generational differences, gender issues, ethnic identity, evolution of demographic patterns, current economic and political standings.",""],"SOC SCI 168B":["SOC SCI","Immigration and Inequality","Explores immigration, ethnicity, and inequality as interconnected social forces. International migration, propelled by global inequalities, plays a central role in the formation of multinational societies, shapes inter-group relations and patterns of ethnic inequality, and transforms the immigrants themselves.",""],"SOC SCI 170A":["SOC SCI","Research Methods in the Social Sciences","Examines how interdisciplinary social science research questions are formulated and studies several research methods including: experimental method, quasi-experimental methods, survey research, field research, evaluation research, and meta-analysis. Parametric and non-parametric statistical methods are illustrated using the SPSS program.","SOC SCI 1A and SOC SCI 2A and SOC SCI 3A and (SOC SCI 10A or STATS 7)"],"SOC SCI 172AW":["SOC SCI","American Culture","A survey of the historical development of dominant American culture and society; emphasis on a close reading of key cultural texts, with weekly text as a model of writing, examining its use of language and rhetoric.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 172D":["SOC SCI","Law in the Twenty-First Century","Examines the complex relationship between law, the social sciences, and modern society.  Lectures explore such issues as the interplay between technology and constitutional rights, the impact of science on law, and the evolving roles of attorneys and judges.",""],"SOC SCI 173L":["SOC SCI","Latinos in a Global Society","Examines interconnections between diverse Latino groups in the U.S. and the effects of globalization on their social, cultural, and political realities. Topics include immigration, demographics, socioeconomic differentiation, familial relations, political protest\/resistance, law and policy, and links to \"homeland\" issues.",""],"SOC SCI 173N":["SOC SCI","Revolution in Latin America","Presents a comparative analysis of the causes, development, and consequences of selected revolutionary movements, focusing on outbreaks in Mexico, Bolivia, Cuba, Chile, Nicaragua, and Grenada.  Explores topics of state formation, economic nationalism, social justice, ethnicity, and role of international affairs.",""],"SOC SCI 177B":["SOC SCI","Asian American Women","Examines the representations and experiences of Asian American women from diverse perspectives. Explores the commonalities and differences among various groups of Asian American women, with particular focus on history, culture, values, and family roles.",""],"SOC SCI 178C":["SOC SCI","Korean American Studies","Explores the factors that have distinctly shaped the Korean American experience, including patterns of racial domination, the profile of immigrant flow, immigrant roles in the urban political economy, politics in Korea, and the role of the church.",""],"SOC SCI 178D":["SOC SCI","Vietnamese American Studies","Studies the resettlement of Vietnamese in the United States following their exodus from Southeast Asia. Topics include the Vietnam War, the 1975 evacuation, boat and land refugees, the shaping of Vietnamese communities, and Vietnamese American literature.",""],"SOC SCI 178E":["SOC SCI","Japanese American Studies","Studies the settlement of Japanese in Hawaii and the continental United States since the late 19th century. Topics include sugar plantations, development of rural Japanese America, World War II internment, post-War community development, and persistence of Japanese American identity.",""],"SOC SCI 178F":["SOC SCI","South Asian American Studies","Examines and compares the experiences of South Asian immigrants in the U.S. over time. Looks at the economic, political, and social positions of the immigrants, with special emphasis on religious changes and the changes in the second and later generations.",""],"SOC SCI 178H":["SOC SCI","Southeast Asian American Studies","Analyzes experiences of refugees and immigrants from Southeast Asia, which may include those from Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, and the Philippines. Examines political and economic factors for their exodus and how they reconstruct their identities, histories, and communities.",""],"SOC SCI 178J":["SOC SCI","Chinese American Studies","Analyzes the experiences of Chinese in the United States. Immigration, Chinese exclusion, racial and gender identity. Historical overview and contemporary issues covered.",""],"SOC SCI 178K":["SOC SCI","Filipina\/Filipino American Studies","Explores the experience of Filipina\/Filipino Americans from the era of Spanish colonization of the Philippines to present-day community formations in the United States, with special emphasis on the 20th century. Topics include colonialism, nation, migration, gender, and culture.",""],"SOC SCI 179":["SOC SCI","Special Topics in Asian American Studies","Studies in selected areas of Asian American Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOC SCI 181A":["SOC SCI","Ethical Leadership","Explores historical and contemporary theories of ethical and unethical leadership.  Examines models of \"good leadership\" such as cardinal and monastic virtues; and models of \"bad leadership,\" such as Machiavelli's Prince.  Explores the philosophies, styles, and accomplishments of leaders.",""],"SOC SCI 183A":["SOC SCI","Global and International Studies Forum","A faculty-student forum featuring lectures from a variety of institutions with discussion issues related to Global and International Studies.",""],"SOC SCI 183B":["SOC SCI","Seminar in Mediation","Student develop mediation skills and refine knowledge in the practice and theory of conflict resolution. Students who complete this course may serve as mediators in the Campus Mediation Program. Course is a prerequisite to completing Indep Study as an intern.",""],"SOC SCI 183CW":["SOC SCI","Seminar Conflict Resolution","Designed for seniors who are pursuing the International Studies major and\/or minor. Provides a forum in which students will refine skills and theory in the study of cooperation and conflict, from local to global arenas. Students write research paper.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 183E":["SOC SCI","Conflict Resolution in Cross-Cultural Perspective","Examines theories of conflict management. Analyzes how conflict is mitigated in diverse cultures: at the interpersonal level, between groups, and on the international scale. Students discuss readings, hear from conflict management practitioners, and simulate negotiations.",""],"SOC SCI 184A":["SOC SCI","Sage Leader Research I","Participants in the SAGE Scholars Program learn to define leadership concepts, discover various leadership styles, and develop strong leadership and communication skills resulting in strengthened ability to contribute to and interact with UCI and the Orange County community.",""],"SOC SCI 184B":["SOC SCI","Sage Leader Research II","Provides a survey of contemporary topics and challenges in the fields of management and leadership. Case studies and text by leading authors are used to analyze key leadership issues in twenty-first century, with particular emphasis on current events.",""],"SOC SCI 184GW":["SOC SCI","Media Writing","Designed to teach reporting and news writing basics.  Students learn how to gather and organize information, ask effective questions, develop story ideas, research facts, and write stories on deadline.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 185W":["SOC SCI","People in Society","Through readings about people in distinctly different societies throughout history, students learn concepts that cross the boundaries of the social science disciplines. Such themes as democracy, elitism, power, social class, and gender are the basis for discussion and writing.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 187":["SOC SCI","Twenty-First-Century Graduate Education","Graduate and professional education in twenty-first century United States. Examines  strategies for admission to postbaccalaureate programs and success in graduate study culture. Introduction to processes including planning and preparation, school selection, entrance examination preparation, submission of applications, writing personal statements.",""],"SOC SCI 188A":["SOC SCI","Introduction to Contemporary Middle East Politics","An overview of basic issues that shape the politics of the Middle East and North Africa. Themes include implication of the colonization era, nation-state formation, inter-Arab relations, nationalism, Arab-Israel conflict, Islamic resurgence, and more.",""],"SOC SCI 188K":["SOC SCI","Political Islam","Political Islamd is a diverse phenomenon. While noticeable barriers exist to \"Islamist democracy,\" it is the Islamists who will define the political future of much of the Muslim world. Reviews the experience of Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Pakistan, Turkey, and Indonesia.",""],"SOC SCI 189":["SOC SCI","Special Topics in Social Sciences","Studies in selected areas of social sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOC SCI H190A":["SOC SCI","Honors Research Workshop","Student develops a 10-15-page prospectus of research for the honors thesis which includes: the research question, literature review, methods of investigation, and bibliography. Student selects a faculty mentor who will supervise thesis research and writing in winter and spring.",""],"SOC SCI H190B":["SOC SCI","Honors Thesis Research","The student initiates and completes data collection for the honors thesis. A faculty mentor provides supervision and feedback on thesis chapters.","SOC SCI H190A or SPPS H190A"],"SOC SCI H190C":["SOC SCI","Honors Thesis","The student completes, with the approval of the faculty mentor, an honors thesis containing: statement of the problem, literature review, research hypotheses, methods of investigation, results, discussion, and bibliography.","SOC SCI H190B or SPPS H190B. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 193A":["SOC SCI","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and underserved communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SOC SCI 70C or SOCIOL 63. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 193B":["SOC SCI","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and underserved communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SOC SCI 193A"],"SOC SCI 193C":["SOC SCI","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and underserved communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SOC SCI 193B"],"SOC SCI 193CW":["SOC SCI","Field Studies in Social Policy and Public Service","Advanced training in qualitative and ethnographic research centered on community service. Students pursue field studies at nonprofit agencies (200 hours) to understand current social problems in underrepresented and under-served communities. Through field placement, students apply theory to practice.","SOC SCI 193B"],"SOC SCI 194A":["SOC SCI","Public Service Internship","Introduces the role of etiquette and leadership in the professional environment. With a two-unit (50 hours) or four-unit (100 hours) credit option, students intern at a nonprofit agency exploring their roles as community leaders and improving their professional skills.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 194C":["SOC SCI","Management and Leadership Practicum-Social Science ","Social Sciences Academic Resource Center (SSARC) Resource Mangers (RMs) report directly to the Director and Associate Director, serving as frontline resource consultants, assisting visitors with resume development, graduate and professional school planning, internship placement, and professional development.",""],"SOC SCI 195A":["SOC SCI","Educational Policy Field Studies","Integrates academic course work with experiential learning; examines the effects of educational policy on urban and suburban schools; explores the relationship between community service and personal academic interests; and develops awareness about the challenges of public education.",""],"SOC SCI 195B":["SOC SCI","Educational Policy Field Studies","Integrates academic course work with experiential learning; examines the effects of educational policy on urban and suburban schools; explores the relationship between community service and personal academic interests; and develops awareness about the challenges of public education.","SOC SCI 195A"],"SOC SCI 195C":["SOC SCI","Educational Policy Field Studies ","Integrates academic course work with experiential learning; examines the effects of educational policy on urban and suburban schools; explores the relationship between community service and personal academic interests; and develops awareness about the challenges of public education.","SOC SCI 195B"],"SOC SCI 196":["SOC SCI","Global Connect","Identifies factors of change that influence the twenty-first century. Students serve as mentors at high schools to introduce globalization issues through workshops and lectures. Students must submit an application and have a 3.0 or higher overall GPA.",""],"SOC SCI 197":["SOC SCI","Professional Internship","Students apply classroom knowledge through research projects in nonprofit agencies (local, state, and government) and the private sector. They pose solutions to agency-posed questions. Students gain field experience through 50 hours (for 2 units) or 100 (for 4 units).","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOC SCI 198":["SOC SCI","Directed Group Study","Directed study with Social Science faculty.",""],"SOC SCI 199":["SOC SCI","Individual Study","Opportunities to do research and learn new skills outside the normal classroom environment. Students participate in planned research and study activities under a written contract with a supervising UCI instructor. Students may enroll for only one 199 each quarter.",""],"SOC SCI 211A":["SOC SCI","Mathematical Behavioral Sciences Colloquium","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors.",""],"SOC SCI 211B":["SOC SCI","Mathematical Behavioral Sciences Colloquium","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors.",""],"SOC SCI 211C":["SOC SCI","Mathematical Behavioral Sciences Colloquium","Weekly reports and colloquia by faculty, students, and visitors.",""],"SOC SCI 253K":["SOC SCI","Race and Justice Studies Writing Seminar ","A required writing-intensive seminar conducted by an instructor affiliated with the Race and Justice Studies emphasis. Students with manuscripts on relevant topics will read and critique peer manuscripts, and revise manuscripts toward completion of articles, dissertation chapters, and other publications.","CRM\/LAW C260C"],"SOC SCI 254A":["SOC SCI","Transnational Migration","Examines borders and boundaries as material and semiotic constructs. Drawing upon an array of literatures, but loosely situated in U.S. geo\/biopolitics, explores transformative troublings of places, spaces, borders, and bodies of all sorts.",""],"SOC SCI 272A":["SOC SCI","Origin and Evolution of Marxist Social Thought","Focuses on the genesis and evolution of Marxist social thought The \"systemic\" method of Marx and Engels to questions of economic production and reproduction is compared and contrasted with modern world-system grand visions, feminist-theoretic approaches, and postmodern critiques.","Undergraduate course in political theory or equivalent."],"SOC SCI 289":["SOC SCI","Special Topics in Social Science","Current research in Social Science.",""],"SOC SCI 290":["SOC SCI","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Social Science faculty.",""],"SOC SCI 299":["SOC SCI","Independent Study","Independent research with Social Science faculty.",""],"SOC SCI 399":["SOC SCI","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"SOCIOL 1":["SOCIOL","Introduction to Sociology","Considers major sociological concepts, theories, and research findings illuminating processes of interpersonal interaction, social differentiation and stratification, integration and conflict, and change, with attention to variation in class, race\/ethnic, gender, multicultural, and cross-national perspectives and experiences.",""],"SOCIOL 2":["SOCIOL","Globalization","Examines globalization and international issues from the perspective of sociology and related fields. Issues include economic globalization and global inequality, international environmental problems, international politics, trends in global culture, and global conflict.",""],"SOCIOL 3":["SOCIOL","Social Problems","Focuses on how institutional and organizational features of societies generate problems for people. Particular attention directed at a set of problems related to political and economic inequality: poverty, racism, sexism, urban and population problems, the environment, the criminal justice system.",""],"SOCIOL 10A":["SOCIOL","Probability and Statistics","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Emphasizes examples from sociology, anthropology, and related social science disciplines.",""],"SOCIOL 10B":["SOCIOL","Probability and Statistics","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Emphasizes examples from sociology, anthropology, and related social science disciplines.","SOCIOL 10A or ANTHRO 10A"],"SOCIOL 10C":["SOCIOL","Probability and Statistics","An introduction to probability and statistics. Emphasis on a thorough understanding of the probabilistic basis of statistical inference. Emphasizes examples from sociology, anthropology, and related social science disciplines.","SOCIOL 10B or ANTHRO 10B"],"SOCIOL 19":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Methods","Studies in selected areas of methods. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 29":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Theory","Studies in selected areas of theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 31":["SOCIOL","Self-Identity and Society","Studies sociological contributions to theory and research in social psychology, with focus on the social influences on personality, attitudes, beliefs, and behavior; socialization, human groups, and social interaction.",""],"SOCIOL 39":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Psychology","Studies in selected areas of social psychology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 41":["SOCIOL","Small Group Dynamics","Deals with models for understanding behavior in small groups, including coalition formation, socialization, group norms and decision rules, leadership, conformity, group structure, and communication processes.",""],"SOCIOL 43":["SOCIOL","City and Community","Examines nature, causes, and consequences of urbanization along with changing scale and complexity, demographic\/ecological city growth patterns, quality of life in urban areas, processes of decision-making, and bearing of sociological investigation on public policy concerns in contemporary urban society.",""],"SOCIOL 44":["SOCIOL","Births, Deaths, and Migration","Introduction to the analysis of human population including fertility, mortality dispersion, sex distribution. Attention is focused on the effects of these variables on, e.g., over-population, social disorganization, and the stability of social institutions.",""],"SOCIOL 49":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Structures","Studies in selected areas of structures. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 51":["SOCIOL","Asian American Family & Community","Briefly examines the history of different Asian American groups and provides an in-depth analysis of issues related to family composition, mate selection, changing gender roles, and intergenerational conflict.",""],"SOCIOL 56":["SOCIOL","Religion and Society","A critical and personal examination of the varieties of religious and spiritual experiences human beings are undergoing in contemporary society. The role of conscious understanding and unconscious conditioning regarding religion and spirituality.",""],"SOCIOL 59":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Institutions and Culture","Studies in selected areas of social institutions and culture. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 62":["SOCIOL","Families and Intimate Relations","Sociological theories\/research on marriage, kinship, intimacy, and divorce. Emphasis on comparing family patterns in different social classes, ethnic groups, and societies, and on relating family life to the economy and other social institutions. Topics include gender roles, child-rearing, historical change.  Materials fee.",""],"SOCIOL 63":["SOCIOL","Race and Ethnicity","Focuses on racial and ethnic relations in the United States and compares them with those found in other societies. Analyzes the conditions that favor either cooperation and integration or rivalry, tension, and conflict. Appraises strategies for reducing and resolving conflicts.",""],"SOCIOL 64":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Sexuality","Provides an introduction to and overview of the sociology of sex and sexuality. Considers the social meanings of sex and sexuality, the social contexts of sex and sexuality, and the social regulations of sex and sexuality.",""],"SOCIOL 68":["SOCIOL","Gender and Race Inequality in the Workplace","Analysis of current state and trends in major inequality measures including the wage gap, occupational segregation, and access to managerial positions. Theories that purport to explain such differences, and the related empirical evidence, are also covered.",""],"SOCIOL 68A":["SOCIOL","Ethnic and Immigrant America","Focusing on Asian, Latino, and Black immigrant groups, examines the second generation's experience of straddling two cultures and growing up American. Covers topics such as assimilation, bilingualism, race relations, education, bicultural conflicts, interracial marriage, and multiracial identities.",""],"SOCIOL 69":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Age, Gender, Race, and Ethnicity","Studies in selected areas of age, gender, race, and ethnicity. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 79":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Societies and Social Inequality","Studies in selected areas of societies and social inequality. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 110":["SOCIOL","Research Methods","Methods of data collection and analysis used by sociologists. Experimental methods, surveys, and interviews, field research and participant observation, demographic methods, historical and comparative approaches.",""],"SOCIOL 119":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Methods","Studies in selected areas of methods. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 120":["SOCIOL","Sociological Theory","What a theory of society is and is not. Historical and contemporary models, perspectives, and schools.",""],"SOCIOL 120W":["SOCIOL","Sociological Theory","What a theory of society is and is not. Historical and contemporary models, perspectives, and schools.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 129":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Theory","Studies in selected areas of theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 134":["SOCIOL","Game Theory and Politics I","Introduction to game theory and a survey of its political applications. Examples of topics covered include voting in small committees, legislatures, and mass elections; interest group activities and environmental issues; institutional design, and the evolution of cooperative behavior.",""],"SOCIOL 135":["SOCIOL","Social Psychology of Networks","Review of network methods used in small group and organizational research. Discussion of social psychological literature relevant to the network of study of cognitive social structure, exchange\/communication, identity negotiation, and social control. Case study of network datasets exemplifies research issues.",""],"SOCIOL 136":["SOCIOL","Religious Traditions of Asian Americans","Studies the religious traditions of Asian Americans, focusing on the transplantation of religious institutions, establishment of sacred spaces, celebration of religious holidays, socialization of children, as well as birth, marriage, gender relations, death, family.",""],"SOCIOL 138":["SOCIOL","Business Decisions","Surveys normative and descriptive models of decision-making behavior, with an emphasis on organizational and policy contexts. Topics include rational choice theory, biases and heuristics, framing effects, and overconfidence. Management fads, panics, and herd behavior are also discussed.","(ANTHRO 10A and ANTHRO 10B and ANTHRO 10C) or (SOCIOL 10A and SOCIOL 10B and SOCIOL 10C) or (SOC SCI 10A and SOC SCI 10B and SOC SCI 10C) or (MATH 2A and MATH 2B and (STATS 7 or MGMT 7)) or (STATS 120A and STATS 120B and STATS 120C) or (ECON 15A and ECON 15B)"],"SOCIOL 139":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Psychology","Studies in selected areas of social psychology. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 141":["SOCIOL","Organizations","How bureaucracies, formal organizations, and voluntary associations work, how\/why they grow, and where they are going. History and structure of organizational rationality; dynamics of organized groups; behavior in organizations; limits of bureaucratization and attempts to overcome these limits through decentralization.",""],"SOCIOL 142":["SOCIOL","White-Collar Crime","Examines criminal activity in business and corporate enterprise, organizations, and the professions. Theories regarding the causes and control of white-collar and corporate crime are covered as well as the numerous definitions of these terms.",""],"SOCIOL 143":["SOCIOL","Social Networks and Social Support","Examines the manner in which behaviors\/attitudes of individuals are affected by their network ties to others. How are peoples' opportunities and well-being increased\/decreased by their social networks? May include studies in mental\/physical health, job seeking, separation and loss, and aging.",""],"SOCIOL 144":["SOCIOL","Politics, Power, and Society","Includes an examination of the major theoretical approaches to political sociology, and the application of these ideas to the politics of advanced capitalist societies. Also considers stability and change in power structures.",""],"SOCIOL 149":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Structures","Studies in selected areas of structures. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 150":["SOCIOL","Sociological Lens on Religion","Examines the effects of religious beliefs, belonging, and institutions on social dynamics, including class, gender, and racial stratification, politics, and social movements. Additional topics: the sociological significance of conversion, commitment, and secularization\/sacralization.",""],"SOCIOL 151":["SOCIOL","Social Inequalities and Health","Introduces ways in which social inequalities produce health disparities. Begins with general perspectives on social causation of health, and then considers how particular individual attributes (e.g., gender, SES, race\/ethnicity, nativity) and social contexts (e.g., neighborhoods) can get \"under the skin.\".",""],"SOCIOL 152W":["SOCIOL","Global Peace","Why do countries fight wars? Will world peace ever be possible? Focuses on social structures that might lead to global peace, with an emphasis on the role of culture and narrative in bringing peace locally, nationally, and globally.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 154":["SOCIOL","Medical Sociology","Current problems in U.S. health-care system and proposals for reform. Examines  financial barriers to access; problem of patient dumping; underinsurance; prenatal and perinatal care; child services; preventative care and needs of the elderly; minorities; low-income people; undocumented.",""],"SOCIOL 154W":["SOCIOL","Medical Sociology","Current problems in U.S. health-care system and proposals for reform. Examines  financial barriers to access; problem of patient dumping; underinsurance; prenatal and perinatal care; child services; preventative care and needs of the elderly; minorities; low-income people; undocumented.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 155B":["SOCIOL","Baseball and Society","An examination of baseball's role in American social life over the last 150 years. Issues of fraternal organizations, national development, capitalism, rationalization, race and ethnicity, gender, economic organization, labor relations, and politics are discussed.",""],"SOCIOL 155BW":["SOCIOL","Baseball and Society","An examination of baseball's role in American social life over the last 150 years. Issues of fraternal organizations, national development, capitalism, rationalization, race and ethnicity, gender, economic organization, labor relations, and politics are discussed.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 156":["SOCIOL","Deviance","Perspectives on deviance and criminality in behavior, institution, community, and myth. The suitability of contemporary theories of deviant behavior.",""],"SOCIOL 157A":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Education","Focuses on education's role in creating and redressing inequality, and in shaping how we understand our place in society. Education from cross-national and historical perspectives, and education as a vehicle for examining and solving social problems.  Course may be offered online.",""],"SOCIOL 157AW":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Education","Focuses on education's role in creating and redressing inequality, and in shaping how we understand our place in society. Education from cross-national and historical perspectives, and education as a vehicle for examining and solving social problems.",""],"SOCIOL 157C":["SOCIOL","Comparing European and US Societies","Society, culture, institutions of U.S. and European countries. Fertility to football, guns to government, work to welfare, health to housework. Cross-national approaches for understanding the world and thinking critically about taken-for-granted practices. Policies the U.S. might borrow for social issues.",""],"SOCIOL 158C":["SOCIOL","Money, Work, and Social Life ","Sociological perspective on issues related to money and work. Consumption practices and lifestyles, jobs and organizations, issues of money in intimate relations, marriage, and households, illegal work, discrimination, economic globalization are discussed.",""],"SOCIOL 158CW":["SOCIOL","Money, Work, and Social Life","Sociological perspective on issues related to money and work. Consumption practices and lifestyles, jobs and organizations, issues of money in intimate relations, marriage, and households, illegal work, discrimination, economic globalization are discussed.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 159":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Institutions and Culture","Studies in selected areas of social institutions and culture. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 161":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Sex and Gender","Explores complex processes contributing to social construction of gender and sexuality in the U.S. with focus on intersection of gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality, and class; evaluates how men and women are differentially constituted in family, education, work, politics, media, language.",""],"SOCIOL 161W":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Sex and Gender","Explores complex processes contributing to social construction of gender and sexuality in the U.S. with focus on intersection of gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality, and class; evaluates how men and women are differentially constituted in family, education, work, politics, media, language.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 163":["SOCIOL","Gender and Ethnicity: Chicana\/Latina Feminisms in the US","Focuses on the Latina Feminist Group and testimonios to examine the historical development of Chicana\/Latinx feminist thought and practice. Draws from interdisciplinary scholarship to survey the diversity of contemporary Chicana\/Latinx feminisms through an intersectionality lens.",""],"SOCIOL 164":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Aging   ","Introduction to sociology of age, aging, and the aged. Problems posed by aging population. Life course transitions and how social organizations influence the life course. Addresses work, health, and family in later life.",""],"SOCIOL 164W":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Aging    ","Introduction to sociology of age, aging, and the aged. Problems posed by aging population. Life course transitions. How social organizations influence the life course. Work, health, family in later life.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 166":["SOCIOL","Immigration and Inequality","Explores immigration, ethnicity, and inequality as interconnected social forces. International migration, propelled by global inequalities, plays a central role in the formation of multinational societies, shapes inter-group relations and patterns of ethnic inequality, and transforms the immigrants themselves.",""],"SOCIOL 167A":["SOCIOL","Racial and Ethnic Relations in the United States","Examines central questions and issues in the field of race and ethnicity; the emergence, maintenance, and consequences of the ethnic and racial stratification system in the United States; the future of racial and ethnic relations; and relevant public policy issues.",""],"SOCIOL 167AW":["SOCIOL","Racial and Ethnic Relations in the United States","Examines central questions and issues in the field of race and ethnicity; the emergence, maintenance, and consequences of the ethnic and racial stratification system in the United States; the future of racial and ethnic relations; and relevant public policy issues.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 169":["SOCIOL","Special Topics in Age, Gender, Race, and Ethnicity","Studies in selected areas of age, gender, race, and ethnicity. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 170A":["SOCIOL","Vietnam War","Examines social structures and social changes in Vietnamese and U.S. societies through the study of the Vietnam War.",""],"SOCIOL 170B":["SOCIOL","U","Analyzes the United States war on terrorism by focusing on terrorism, the U.S. wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, and changes in police powers through the Patriot Act, as well as the political leadership which directs the war.",""],"SOCIOL 171":["SOCIOL","Environment and Society","Examines society's changing relationship to the natural world. Delineates different models of \"nature\" and then explores their institutional roots, the social responses they have generated, and their implications for social inequality.",""],"SOCIOL 172":["SOCIOL","Revolution and Social Transformation in China","Introduces the major political events in Mao's communist revolution and the social transformations afterward. Helps students understand the historic and political landscape from which China is now departing.",""],"SOCIOL 172A":["SOCIOL","Chicanx\/Latinx Education","Provides a historical and empirical overview of educational issues affecting diverse Latinx low-income, immigrant, and U.S. born student populations enrolled in American schools. Examines policies and issues such as DACA, generation, culture, racism, and gender on educational mobility.",""],"SOCIOL 173":["SOCIOL","Social Inequality","Sources, functions, and dynamics of the unequal distribution of wealth, prestige, knowledge, and power in American and other societies.",""],"SOCIOL 173W":["SOCIOL","Social Inequality","Sources, functions, and dynamics of the unequal distribution of wealth, prestige, knowledge, and power in American and other societies.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 174":["SOCIOL","Protests, Movements, and Revolutions","A survey of models of collective action drawn from sociology, economics, psychology, and political science. Focus on areas such as social movements, strikes, crowd psychology, cults, fads, fashions, public opinion, and symbolic and mythical elements in collective culture.","SOCIOL 1 or POL SCI 11A or ECON 1"],"SOCIOL 175B":["SOCIOL","China in the Global Age","Chinese society from 1949 to present. Social change in the context of political control and ideological considerations. Focus on the power structure, political decision processes, and ideological legitimation, and interplay with the Chinese community and its culture.",""],"SOCIOL 176":["SOCIOL","International Divided Cities","Investigates urban divisions in international cities where deep-seated nationalistic ethnic differences create pressures for intergroup conflicts, autonomy, or territorial separation, and can incite violence. Urban political polarization as it is manifest in the urban setting.",""],"SOCIOL 177":["SOCIOL","Immigration and Social Policy","Explains how people decide to migrate and how they are incorporated into a host society (both historically and currently), examines the effects of immigration on the U.S., analyzes how the framing of immigration shapes the discourse about the issue.",""],"SOCIOL 177C":["SOCIOL","Undocumented Immigrant Experiences","Examines the experiences of undocumented immigrants and the policies that structure their educational, economic, social, and political participation.",""],"SOCIOL 177W":["SOCIOL","Immigration and Social Policy","Explains how people decide to migrate and how they are incorporated into a host society (both historically and currently), examines the effects of immigration on the U.S., analyzes how the framing of immigration shapes the discourse about the issue.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 179":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Societies and Social Inequality","Studies in selected areas of societies and social inequality. Topics addressed vary each quarter.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 180A":["SOCIOL","Sociology Majors Seminar","Students learn sociology by doing it. A modest-sized research project is planned and implemented by each student.","SOCIOL 110"],"SOCIOL 180AW":["SOCIOL","Sociology Majors Seminar","Students learn sociology by doing it. A modest-sized research project is planned and implemented by each student.","SOCIOL 110. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL 188BW":["SOCIOL","Honors Research and Thesis","Focuses on the design and implementation of individual research projects undertaken by senior Sociology majors. Writing projects consist of a proposal and paper on some empirical research.","SOCIOL H188A. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"SOCIOL H188A":["SOCIOL","Honors Research and Thesis","Focuses on the design and implementation of individual research projects undertaken by senior Sociology majors. Writing projects consist of a proposal and paper on some empirical research.",""],"SOCIOL 189":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Honors Sequence","Independent honors research with Social Sciences faculty.","Prerequisites vary."],"SOCIOL 197":["SOCIOL","Field Study","Field study with Sociology faculty.",""],"SOCIOL 198":["SOCIOL","Directed Group Study ","Directed study with Sociology faculty.",""],"SOCIOL 199":["SOCIOL","Independent Study","Independent research with Sociology faculty.",""],"SOCIOL 202A":["SOCIOL","Proseminar I in Sociology","Introduces first-year graduate students in Sociology to the current research interests of Sociology faculty, as well as to other aspects of graduate life at UCI and to the profession of sociology more generally.",""],"SOCIOL 202B":["SOCIOL","Proseminar II in Sociology","Focus is on second-year research projects, design, development, data gathering, analysis, and preparing oral and written presentations of the results. Students learn analytic and writing skills, gain experience with research processes, and become socialized about professional standards, customs, and institutions.",""],"SOCIOL 210A":["SOCIOL","Classical Social Theory","Examines the development of classical sociological theory through the writings of Karl Marx, Emile Durkheim, Max Weber, Georg Simmel, and George Herbert Mead.",""],"SOCIOL 210B":["SOCIOL","Contemporary Social Theory","Familiarizes students with 20th-century developments in social thought that have influenced sociological research, suggesting \"what is living and what is dead\" in the \"classics\" and offering an overview of the main outlines of recent sociological theorizing.",""],"SOCIOL 211A":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Gender","An introduction to the sociology of gender in the U.S. and globally. The social construction of gender and sexuality; theoretical perspectives and feminist frameworks. Theories of economy, patriarchy, and race, and the social positions of women and men.",""],"SOCIOL 212":["SOCIOL","Network Theory","An introduction to theoretical work in the field of social networks. Topics include baseline models, homphily, and propinquity, exchange and power, balance theory, diffusion and social influence, equivalence, and cohesion. Deductive use of theory to make novel predictions is emphasized.",""],"SOCIOL 219":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Theory","Studies in selected areas of theory. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 220A":["SOCIOL","Research Design","Data collection, organization, and analysis in ethnographic or quasi-experimental settings, including interviewing, participant observations, behavior observations, and questionnaires. Research design issues include sampling, longitudinal research, and comparative research. Emphasis on the integration of qualitative and quantitative data.",""],"SOCIOL 221A":["SOCIOL","Graduate Statistics I","Statistics with emphasis on applications in sociology and anthropology. Examines exploratory uses of statistical tools in these fields as well as univariate, bivariate, and multivariate applications in the context of the general linear model.",""],"SOCIOL 221B":["SOCIOL","Graduate Statistics II","Statistics with emphasis on applications in sociology and anthropology. Examines exploratory uses of statistical tools in these fields as well as univariate, bivariate, and multivariate applications in the context of the general linear model.","SOCIOL 221A"],"SOCIOL 221C":["SOCIOL","Graduate Statistics III","Statistics with emphasis on applications in sociology and anthropology. Examines exploratory uses of statistical tools in these fields as well as univariate, bivariate, and multivariate applications in the context of the general linear model.","SOCIOL 221A and SOCIOL 221B"],"SOCIOL 222A":["SOCIOL","Comparative and Historical Sociological Methods","Topics include the logic of comparative and historical analysis techniques and the examination of exemplar works in representative problem areas.",""],"SOCIOL 224":["SOCIOL","Interview Methods     ","Hands-on introduction to the use of interviews in social scientific research. Topics include when to use interviews and\/or focus groups; how to design an interview-based study, how to conduct interviews, analyze interview data, and write up and publish interview-based results.",""],"SOCIOL 226A":["SOCIOL","Methods of Demographic Analysis","Introduces basic demographic methods used in social science and public health research. Topics include sources and limitations of demographic data; components of population growth; measures of nuptiality, fertility, mortality, and population mobility projection methods; and demographic models.",""],"SOCIOL 227A":["SOCIOL","Seminar Ethnographic & Qualitative Field Methods","Comprehensive and critical discussion of the traditions of qualitative fieldwork; detailed examination of the collection, coding, analysis, and presentation of ethnographic\/qualitative field data; and close mentoring of student projects culminating in an original research paper.",""],"SOCIOL 227B":["SOCIOL","Seminar Ethnographic & Qualitative Field Methods","Comprehensive and critical discussion of the traditions of qualitative fieldwork; detailed examination of the collection, coding, analysis, and presentation of ethnographic\/qualitative field data; and close mentoring of student projects culminating in an original research paper.","SOCIOL 227A"],"SOCIOL 229":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Methods ","Studies in selected areas of methods. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 230A":["SOCIOL","Race and Ethnicity","An examination of central questions and issues in the field of race and ethnicity through a critical analysis and discussion of the principal theoretical perspectives and paradigms that have framed much of the scholarship in the area.",""],"SOCIOL 232":["SOCIOL","Inequality","Theoretical and empirical approaches to the study of social and economic inequality, with special attention to race\/ethnicity, class, and gender.",""],"SOCIOL 234":["SOCIOL","Ethnic America","Examines critically the meaning and measurement of ethnicity, race, and nation in sociological theory and research. Theories of ethnicity are explored, along with empirical studies of the construction of ethnic and pan-ethnic identities in historical and contemporary contexts.",""],"SOCIOL 235":["SOCIOL","Poverty and Development ","Examines competing conceptualizations, methods of measurement, and poverty alleviation strategies widely used in developing countries. Focuses on poverty conceptualized as economic deprivation, well-being, vulnerability, and social exclusion.",""],"SOCIOL 237":["SOCIOL","Educational Inequality","Focuses on macro-level explanations of inequality of schooling, particularly in the U.S. context. Explores traditional models, such as conflict, functionalism, status-attainment, cultural reproduction, and newer synthetic accounts. Emphasis on higher education access and the intersection of education and work.",""],"SOCIOL 239":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Inequality","Studies in selected areas of social inequality. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 240A":["SOCIOL","Social Movements","A survey of the field of Social Movements, oriented around critical themes in the major theoretical traditions and contemporary exemplars.",""],"SOCIOL 241A":["SOCIOL","Political Sociology","Begins with an examination of the three major orientations to the State (Pluralist, Elitist, and Class). Next considers current topics in political sociology including the Welfare State, the New Deal, political behavior, social movements, participation, and democracy.",""],"SOCIOL 242":["SOCIOL","Sociology of Culture","Major perspectives in the sociology of culture. Topics include the role of cultural dynamics in the reproduction of inequality, collective action, political and organizational decision making, emotional experience, and the social impacts of new technologies.",""],"SOCIOL 249":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Political Sociology and Social Movements","Studies in selected areas of political sociology and social movements. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 252A":["SOCIOL","Global Urbanization","Examines the spread of cities worldwide in the 20th century. What are the political and economic causes of this process? What are the social-cultural, political, and economic effects? How is contemporary urbanization linked to global restructuring of other kinds.",""],"SOCIOL 259":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Global Studies and Comparative Development","Studies in selected areas of global studies and comparative development. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 262A":["SOCIOL","Population","Introduces the interrelationships between population and social organization. Considers measurement and explanation of historical and contemporary trends in birth rates, death rates, migration, and marriage and divorce. Case material is drawn primarily from the U.S. and other industrialized nations.",""],"SOCIOL 264":["SOCIOL","Immigrant America","The study of the causes and consequences of international migration has become one of the most vital fields of sociological theory and research. Examines principal theoretical perspectives and empirical research on contemporary immigration flows and the processes of incorporation.",""],"SOCIOL 265":["SOCIOL","DASA Research Design","Data collection, organization, and analysis in population studies and demography. Research design issues include sampling, longitudinal research, and comparative research.","Enrollment in DASA program."],"SOCIOL 268":["SOCIOL","Crimmigration","Examines the criminalization of immigration, with an emphasis on U.S. enforcement procedures and outcomes. Analyzes the devolution of federal immigration law to local authorities, the rise in immigrant detention and deportation, and the militarization of the U.S.-Mexico border.",""],"SOCIOL 269":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Demography","Studies in selected areas of social demography. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 279":["SOCIOL","Special Topics: Social Organizations and Institutions","Studies in selected areas of social organizations and institutions. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 280":["SOCIOL","Analysis of Social Network Data","Overview and application of methods for analyzing social network data. Topics include: data structures, visualization, graph theory, centrality, subgroups, positions, blockmodels, local properties, and statistical models. Social network analysis software is used to analyze a range of examples.",""],"SOCIOL 281":["SOCIOL","Introduction to Social Networks","Provides a broad overview of the history, concepts, and applications of social networks. Students have the opportunity to delve deeply into applications of the network approach in their individual areas of interest.",""],"SOCIOL 282":["SOCIOL","Theorizing Illegality and the Experiences of Undocumented Immigrants","Examines theories of illegality and citizenship, historical and contemporary undocumented immigrant experiences, and methodological concerns in this area of study.",""],"SOCIOL 289":["SOCIOL","Special Topics       ","Studies in selected areas of Social Sciences. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SOCIOL 290":["SOCIOL","Dissertation Research","Dissertation research with Sociology faculty.",""],"SOCIOL 299":["SOCIOL","Independent Study","Independent research with Sociology faculty.",""],"SWE 211":["SWE","Software Engineering","Study of the concepts, methods, and tools for the analysis, design, construction, and measurement of complex software-intensive systems. Underlying principles emphasized. State-of-the-art software engineering and promising research areas covered, including project management.",""],"SWE 212":["SWE","Analysis of Programming Languages","Concepts in modern programming languages, their interaction, and the relationship between programming languages and methods for large-scale, extensible software development. Empirical analysis of programming language usage.",""],"SWE 213":["SWE","Requirements Engineering and Specification","Rigorous techniques in requirements engineering - the requirements definition phase of software development - with a focus on modeling and specification. Topics include notations and models for requirements specification; and methods, tools, and processes for software requirements elicitation, representation, analysis.",""],"SWE 214":["SWE","Program Analysis","Covers principles and concepts of automated program analysis. Topics include program representations; intra-procedural data-flow analysis; call-graph construction; pointer analysis; alias analysis; inter-procedural analysis; inter-procedural finite distributive subset problems; inter-procedural distributive environment problems; symbolic execution; and program-analysis applications.",""],"SWE 215":["SWE","Dynamic Analysis, Testing, and Debugging","Studies techniques for developing confidence in software from traditional testing techniques to state-of-the-art dynamic analysis and debugging techniques. Emphasis is on assisting developer comprehension of runtime behavior.",""],"SWE 221":["SWE","Software Architecture","Study of the concepts, representation techniques, development methods, and tools for architecture-centric software engineering. Topics include domain-specific software architectures, architectural styles, architecture description languages, software connectors, and dynamism in architectures.",""],"SWE 225":["SWE","Information Retrieval, Filtering, and Classification","Algorithms for the storage, retrieval, filtering, and classification of textual and multimedia data. The vector space model, Boolean and probabilistic queries, and relevance feedback. Latent semantic indexing; collaborative filtering; and relationship to machine learning methods.","CS 161 and CS 171 and (ICS 6N or MATH 3A or MATH 6G)"],"SWE 233":["SWE","Intelligent User Interfaces","Explores example software systems and their underlying concepts that leverage computing to empower and augment human individuals in their activities. Topics span the fields of user interface design, human-computer interaction, software engineering, and cognitive computing.","CS 171"],"SWE 234":["SWE","Human Aspects of Software Engineering","Selected topics about the cooperative and human aspects of software engineering from the perspective that software engineering is inherently an endeavor involving human stakeholders. Topics may include but are not limited to collaboration, trust, emotion, language, gender, and software tools.",""],"SWE 240P":["SWE","Data Structures","Exploration of well-known data structures to represent computational problems. Topics include linked lists, graphs, binary trees, stacks, queues, heaps, and hash tables, among others.",""],"SWE 241P":["SWE","Applied Data Structures and Algorithms","Exploration of strategies to tackle computational problems whose solutions include well-known algorithms and data structures. Topics include sorting, searching, and indexing, among others.",""],"SWE 242P":["SWE","Network Programming","Exploration of networking principles and concepts for the development of distributed software. Topics include programming against well-known network protocols, ports and sockets, and network APIs.",""],"SWE 243P":["SWE","Database Programming ","Exploration of software development with substantial reliance on a database for storage and retrieval of data. Topics include relational databases, structured query language, relational database management systems, APIs and libraries for database programming, among others.",""],"SWE 244P":["SWE","Concurrent Programming","Exploration of concepts and mechanisms for the development of concurrent software.  Topics include threads, locks, race conditions, and deadlocks, among others.",""],"SWE 245P":["SWE","GUI Programming ","Exploration of interactive software with substantial graphical user interface elements.  Topics include libraries and frameworks for GUI programming, layout design and alternatives, event-driven programming, among others.",""],"SWE 246P":["SWE","Mobile Programming","Exploration of contemporary libraries and frameworks for construction of mobile applications. Topics include emulators, mobile development standards and patterns, energy consumption issues, screen layout, among others.",""],"SWE 247P":["SWE","Applied Information Retrieval","Exploration of principles and concepts for textual information retrieval. Topics include tokenization, inverted indexes, scored retrieval, and precision and recall.",""],"SWE 248P":["SWE","Neural Network Programming ","Exploration of the concepts, terminology, and processes for training and using deep neural networks for classification problems. Topics include tensors and tensor operations, gradient-based optimization, feature engineering and learning, and workflow of learning systems.",""],"SWE 249P":["SWE","Applied Data Analytics","Exploration of the concepts, terminology, and processes used in supervised and unsupervised learning for classification and clustering, from a software engineering perspective. Topics include K-Nearest Neighbors, Logistic Regression, Random Forests, Support Vector Machines, K-Means, and model assessment.",""],"SWE 250P":["SWE","Web Programming","Exploration of the concepts, terminology, and popular frameworks for developing full-stack web applications. Students develop simple applications using multiple development stacks, and deploy them on the cloud.",""],"SWE 261P":["SWE","Software Testing and Debugging","Designed to teach students how to ensure high-quality software by means of testing, debugging, and other quality assurance activities. Students learn a combination of both theoretical and practical skills, including hands-on experience with modern tools and approaches.",""],"SWE 262P":["SWE","Programming Styles","Designed to teach students the various ways software can be decomposed and put back together. Students are exposed to a variety of different programming styles and composition mechanisms.",""],"SWE 263P":["SWE","User Experience and Interaction","Provides an introduction to the basic principles of human-computer interaction (HCI) and the pragmatic aspects of usability engineering. Topics include the fundamentals of interaction, user experience, design for usability, and evaluation of products for their usability.",""],"SWE 264P":["SWE","Distributed Software Architecture","Study of software system architectures and architectural styles for large-scale distributed applications, and contemporary technologies and standards for their construction. Topics include client-server, peer-to-peer, publish-subscribe, REST, cloud computing, content distribution networks, scalability, latency, caching, and security, among others.",""],"SWE 265P":["SWE","Reverse Engineering and Modeling","Introduces theories, concepts, representations, techniques, and case studies in understanding large-scale, complex software systems. Topics include static and dynamic modeling notations, manual and (semi-)automated reverse engineering techniques, APIs, patterns, and styles. A significant, hands-on project is included.",""],"SWE 266P":["SWE","Software Security and Dependability ","Principles and concepts for the design and construction of secure software. Topics include common types of software security vulnerabilities, methods for detecting vulnerabilities, design and process methodologies to improve security of software, and techniques for assessing security properties of software.",""],"SWE 267P":["SWE","Cloud and Security Foundations","Cloud and security foundations provides students fundamental design and security principles about cloud computing and information security. Topics include cloud concepts and architectures; cloud security; data protection and privacy compliance and governance; and security by design, amongst other topics.",""],"SWE 271P":["SWE","Career and Entrepreneurship","Teaches practical skills for spoken, written, and electronic communication in a range of business and technical contexts, including promoting project ideas and portfolio development. Students practice their skills in classroom presentations and written exercises.",""],"SWE 272P":["SWE","Project Management","Provides an introduction to project management in software engineering from several perspectives. Topics include team behavior; globally distributed work; and resource estimation, scheduling, and budgeting. Students apply their knowledge in an ongoing class project.",""],"SWE 275P":["SWE","Curricular Practical Training","Mandatory internship in which students individually work at an outside organization to gain experience with the challenges involved in the practice of software engineering.",""],"SWE 276P":["SWE","Capstone Project in Software Engineering","Quarter-long software-intensive project focusing on the design and implementation of a novel software system. Students are expected to bring to bear the concepts acquired during the program.",""],"SWE 290":["SWE","Research Seminar","Forum for presentation and criticism by students of research work in progress. Presentation of problem areas and related work. Specific goals and progress of research.",""],"SWE 290P":["SWE","Advisement","Mandatory weekly meetings with a faculty advisor.",""],"SWE 295":["SWE","Special Topics in Software Engineering","Studies in selected areas of software engineering. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"SWE 298":["SWE","Thesis Supervision","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the M.S. thesis option or the dissertation requirements for the Ph.D. program.",""],"SWE 299":["SWE","Individual Study","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"SWE 299P":["SWE","Independent Study","Supervised individual practical project in Software Engineering.",""],"SPANISH 1A":["SPANISH","Fundamentals of Spanish","First quarter of Fundaments of Spanish that helps students develop basic reading, listening, speaking, and writing skills in Spanish. Delivered in a hybrid format.","Placement into SPANISH 1A."],"SPANISH 1AB":["SPANISH","Fundamentals Intensive Spanish","An intensive, proficiency-oriented, and task-based approach, designed to develop basic oral communicative abilities in Spanish.  Reading and writing skills, along with an an introduction to Hispanic cultures.","Placement into SPANISH 1A."],"SPANISH 1B":["SPANISH","Fundamentals of Spanish","Second quarter of Fundaments of Spanish that helps students develop basic reading, listening, speaking, and writing skills in Spanish. Delivered in a hybrid format.","SPANISH 1A. SPANISH 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 1B is also accepted."],"SPANISH 1C":["SPANISH","Fundamentals of Spanish","Third quarter of Fundaments of Spanish that helps students develop basic reading, listening, speaking, and writing skills in Spanish. Delivered in a hybrid format.","SPANISH 1AB or SPANISH 1B or SPANISH S1AB. SPANISH 1AB with a grade of C or better. SPANISH 1B with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S1AB with a grade of B or better. Placement into SPANISH 1C is also accepted."],"SPANISH S1AB":["SPANISH","Fundamentals of Spanish","First half of first-year Spanish in an intensified form. Communicative approach with emphasis on conversational skills.","Placement into SPANISH 1A."],"SPANISH S1BC":["SPANISH","Fundamentals of Spanish","Second half of first-year Spanish in an intensified form. Communicative approach with emphasis on conversational skills.","SPANISH S1AB or SPANISH 1A or SPANISH 1B. SPANISH S1AB with a grade of C or better. SPANISH 1A with a grade of C or better. SPANISH 1B with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 1B or SPANISH 1C is also accepted."],"SPANISH 2A":["SPANISH","Intermediate Spanish","First quarter of Intermediate Spanish that helps students further develop their reading, listening, speaking, and writing skills in Spanish and a cultural understanding of the Spanish-speaking world. Delivered in a hybrid format.","SPANISH 1C or SPANISH S1BC. SPANISH 1C with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 2A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 2AB":["SPANISH","Intermediate Intensive Spanish","Intensive intermediate course designed to improve student's abilities in reading, writing, speaking, and comprehension, including a thorough introduction to Hispanic cultures. Grammatical component of the language is gradually reviewed and tested.","SPANISH 1C or SPANISH S1BC. SPANISH 1C with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 2A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 2B":["SPANISH","Intermediate Spanish","Second quarter of Intermediate Spanish that helps students further develop their reading, listening, speaking, and writing skills in Spanish and a cultural understanding of the Spanish-speaking world. Delivered in a hybrid format.","SPANISH 2A. SPANISH 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 2B is also accepted."],"SPANISH 2C":["SPANISH","Intermediate Spanish","Third quarter of Intermediate Spanish that helps students further develop their reading, listening, speaking, and writing skills in Spanish and a cultural understanding of the Spanish-speaking world. Delivered in a hybrid format.","SPANISH 2AB or SPANISH 2B or SPANISH S2AB. SPANISH 2AB with a grade of C or better. SPANISH 2B with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S2AB with a grade of B or better. Placement into SPANISH 2C is also accepted."],"SPANISH S2AB":["SPANISH","Intermediate Spanish","First half of second-year Spanish in an intensified form. Conversation, reading, and composition skills are developed using texts of literary and social interest. Emphasis on grammar review.","SPANISH 1C or SPANISH S1BC. SPANISH 1C with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 2A is also accepted."],"SPANISH S2BC":["SPANISH","Intermediate Spanish","Second half of second-year Spanish in an intensified form. Conversation, reading, and composition skills are developed using texts of literary and social interest. Emphasis on grammar review.","SPANISH 2B or SPANISH S2AB or SPANISH 2A. SPANISH 2B with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S2AB with a grade of C or better. SPANISH 2A with a grade of B or better. Placement into SPANISH 2B or SPANISH 2C is also accepted."],"SPANISH 3":["SPANISH","US Latino Communities","Focuses on intermediate to advanced grammar and composition. Emphasis is placed on key elements of grammar, which constitutes about 70 percent of the curriculum, and composition writing, which constitutes the remaining 30 percent.","SPANISH 2C or SPANISH S2BC. SPANISH 2C with a grade of C or better. SPANISH S2BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into SPANISH 3 is also accepted."],"SPANISH 3H":["SPANISH","Heritage Spanish: Latinidades en California","Designed for students who grew up speaking Spanish in their homes and who need additional practice writing in Spanish. Delivered in a hybrid format.","Placement into SPANISH 3H."],"SPANISH 50":["SPANISH","Latin America, U","Introduction (for non-majors) to the culture of the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking worlds (Europe, Latin America, U.S., Africa).  May focus on any time period.  Taught in english.",""],"SPANISH 60E":["SPANISH","Mexico and Central America: A Survey ","Panoramic view of Mexico and Central America examining key texts throughout history. Shows the richness of the culture, and an appraisal of various forms of representation, including images, chronicles, novels, essays, poems, and  a film. Taught in English.",""],"SPANISH 60S":["SPANISH","Mexico and Central America: A Survey ","Panoramic view of Mexico and Central America examining key texts throughout history. Shows the richness of the culture, and an appraisal of various forms of representation, including images, chronicles, novels, essays, poems, and a film. Taught in Spanish.","Placement into SPANISH 2A or higher via Spanish Placement Test B is required."],"SPANISH 61":["SPANISH","The Culture of the Visual Image in Latin America ","A survey of visual forms of expression which have endured through more than five centuries of pre-colonial, colonial, and independent Latin America. Forms to be treated in the class include painting, monuments, sculpture, urban planning, graffiti, comics, and photography.",""],"SPANISH 62":["SPANISH","Latinx, Multilingualism, and Social Justice ","Explores the role of multilingualism (Spanish, indigenous languages, Latino English) in Latinx social justice movements in the United States with an emphasis on California. Course is taught in English.",""],"SPANISH 97":["SPANISH","Fundamentals of Spanish (with Emphasis on Reading)","Designed for students interested in acquiring a solid reading knowledge of Spanish, and to facilitate the understanding and translating of Spanish texts covering a variety of disciplines.  Does not fulfill any undergraduate foreign language requirement.  Taught in English.","Does not serve as prerequisite for any higher-level Spanish courses."],"SPANISH 101A":["SPANISH","Introduction to Iberian Literature and Culture","Introduction to the major authors and movements of Iberian literature and culture from the Middle Ages to the present.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 101B":["SPANISH","Introductory Studies to Latin American Literature and Culture","A historical overview of Latin American literature and culture mainly focused on canonical texts. Topics include colonialism and postcolonialism, the nation, indigenismo, gender, and literary movements. Also introduces literary analysis, research methods, and cultural critique.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 104":["SPANISH","Writing in Spanish","Focuses on the use of writing as a medium to encourage critical thinking and the practical analysis of literary texts, as well as the study of historical and social issues in the Spanish-speaking world.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 105":["SPANISH","Spanish Communication","Designed to help students develop Spanish oral skills by exposing them to different verbal Spanish language registers. Special emphasis placed on abilities essential to professional or academic careers. Intended for Spanish majors as an important component of their overall education.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 107":["SPANISH","Advanced Spanish Grammar","Designed for students who have demonstrated a substantial level of proficiency in their studies of the Spanish language. Takes thorough approach to advanced grammatical problems, in order to assist students in their mastery of the elements of the Spanish language.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 108":["SPANISH","Topics in Spanish for the Professions","Taught in Spanish to promote linguistic competencies, intercultural awareness, and understanding of local Latino communities' needs. Provides resources to carry out professional tasks and build meaningful community-based relationships in the health, legal, and business fields.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 110A":["SPANISH","Topics in Peninsular Literature and Cultures","Topics in Peninsular literature and cultures.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 110B":["SPANISH","Topics in Latin American Literature and Cultures","Topics in Latin American literature and cultures.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 110C":["SPANISH","U","Focuses on aspects of literature, art, cultural production, and history of the multifaceted Latino cultures that have developed within the United States.  Focuses on one group, such as Caribbean Americans, Chicanos, Central Americans, or a comparative perspective of several groups.",""],"SPANISH 113A":["SPANISH","Spanish Phonetics","Introduction to fundamental notions of Spanish phonetics. Particular attention paid to problems of pronunciation that arise in native and non-native speakers of Spanish due to interference between Spanish and English. Phonology (the system that underlies phonetics) and Spanish dialectology included.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 113B":["SPANISH","Introduction to Spanish Linguistics","Introduces students to the scientific study of the Spanish language with a focus on its sound system, word components, word order as well as second language acquisition and language variation. Class is delivered in a hybrid format.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 119":["SPANISH","Textual Analysis and Interpretation","Focus on analysis and interpretation of literary texts. Emphasis on narrative, poetry, theater\/performance, and visual media. Introduces students to major currents in theoretical thought, such as cultural studies, postmodernism, and others. Oral presentations and short essays required. Taught in Spanish.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 121":["SPANISH","Topics in Golden Age Literature and Culture","Golden Age Literature in Spain, including the Renaissance and Baroque periods. Works of poetry, narrative, and theater. Historical and cultural background.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 122":["SPANISH","Topics in 18th and 19th Century Spanish Literature and Culture","The main literary and ideological trends in 18th and 19th century Spain, including the enlightenment, romanticism, realism, and naturalism.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 123":["SPANISH","Topics in 20th and 21st Century Spanish Literature and Culture","20th century Spanish authors. Works of poetry, narrative, or theater. Historical context of the period and principles of literary theory.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 130C":["SPANISH","Topics in Latin American Literature and Culture of the 20th Century","Topics in Latin American literature and culture of the 20th century.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 140":["SPANISH","Topics in Chicano Literature and Culture","Studies in selected areas of Chicano\/Latino Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter. Taught in English.",""],"SPANISH 150":["SPANISH","Topics in Literature in Translation","Study of texts by modern and contemporary Peninsular, Latin American, and\/or U.S. Latino writers in translation. Taught in English. Not applicable toward Spanish major or minor requirements.",""],"SPANISH 160":["SPANISH","Topics in Luso-Hispanic Film Studies","Study of Peninsular, Latin-American, and\/or U.S. Latino film. Taught in English or Spanish.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 185":["SPANISH","Selected Topics in Peninsular Literature and Culture","Selection of representative topics in Spanish and\/or Portuguese literature and culture.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 186":["SPANISH","Selected Topics in Latin American Literature and Culture","Selection of representative topics in the history of Latin American literature and culture.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 187":["SPANISH","Selected Topics in Spanish Linguistics","Major topics in Spanish linguistics.","SPANISH 3 or SPANISH 3H. Placement into SPANISH 101A is also accepted."],"SPANISH 190":["SPANISH","Colloquium","Specialized, discussion-based course dealing primarily with a research topic that reflects the instructor's current intellectual interests. Required oral presentation(s) and final research paper. Limited to 15 students.","SPANISH 107 or SPANISH 113A"],"SPANISH 199":["SPANISH","Independent Study","Research paper required.",""],"SPANISH 204":["SPANISH","Spanish in Contact","Sociohistorical and linguistic overview of Spanish in contact with Basque, Catalan, English, German, American Indian, and African languages in Spain, Latin America, and the United States. Examines theories about language contact, and linguistic changes in Spanish phonology and grammar.",""],"SPANISH 205":["SPANISH","Spanish Dialectology","Phonological, morphological, and syntactic variations in Spanish as spoken in the Hispanic world, from synchronic and diachronic points of view.  The study of Spanish as spoken in the United States.",""],"SPANISH 214":["SPANISH","Topics in Golden Age Literature and Culture","Topics in Golden Age literature and culture.",""],"SPANISH 220":["SPANISH","Topics in Twentieth Century","Topics in twentieth-century Spanish literature and culture.",""],"SPANISH 221":["SPANISH","Topics in Iberian Studies","Cross-cultural connections and interactions between different ethnicities in the Iberian Peninsula.",""],"SPANISH 231":["SPANISH","Topics in Colonial Latin America","Topics in Colonial Latin America.",""],"SPANISH 233":["SPANISH","Topics in Twentieth-Century Latin America","Topics in twentieth-century Latin America.",""],"SPANISH 235":["SPANISH","Topics in Trans-Oceanic Studies","Focuses on meaningful connections between different geographical and cultural areas.",""],"SPANISH 239A":["SPANISH","Topics in Literary Theory I","Traces the development of Western literary critical principles from Aristotle to the twentieth century through selected readings of key figures in intellectual history (Aristotle, St. Augustine, Descartes, Kant, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, William James, Freud).",""],"SPANISH 239C":["SPANISH","Special Topics in Theory","Focus on issues related to critical theory, theory of literature, cultural criticism and visual arts as they pertain specifically to Latin America, Spain, Portugal, and Brazil. Topics vary. Examples: Latin American cultural studies; theory, film, and media in post-war Spain.",""],"SPANISH 260":["SPANISH","Seminar in Spanish  ","Topics in Spanish.",""],"SPANISH 270":["SPANISH","Creative Writing Workshop in Spanish\/English","Discussion of theory and practice of creative writing.  Focus on critical analysis of participant's work in progress.  Texts may be written in Spanish and\/or English and may be written in poetry or prose format.",""],"SPANISH 290":["SPANISH","Individual Study","Individual Study.",""],"SPANISH 291":["SPANISH","Directed Reading","Directed Reading in Spanish.",""],"SPANISH 292":["SPANISH","Teaching Practicum","Teaching Practicum.",""],"SPANISH 299":["SPANISH","Dissertation Research","Dissertation Research.",""],"SPANISH 399":["SPANISH","University Teaching","Limited to Teaching Assistants.",""],"STATS 5":["STATS","Seminar in Data Science","An introduction to the field of Data Science; intended for entering freshman and transfers.",""],"STATS 6":["STATS","Introduction to Data Science","Introduces the full data cycle. Topics include data collection and retrieval, data cleaning, exploratory analysis and visualization, introduction to statistical modeling, inference, and communicating findings. Applications include real data from a wide-range of fields with emphasis on understanding reproducible practices.",""],"STATS 7":["STATS","Basic Statistics","Introduces basic inferential statistics including confidence intervals and hypothesis testing on means and proportions, t-distribution, Chi Square, regression and correlation. F-distribution and nonparametric statistics included if time permits.",""],"STATS 8":["STATS","Introduction to Biological Statistics ","Introductory statistical techniques used to collect and analyze experimental and observational data from health sciences and biology. Includes exploration of data, probability and sampling distributions, basic statistical inference for means and proportions, linear regression, and analysis of variance.",""],"STATS 67":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics for Computer Science","Introduction to the basic concepts of probability and statistics with discussion of applications to computer science.","MATH 2B"],"STATS 68":["STATS","Statistical Computing and Exploratory Data Analysis","Introduces key concepts in statistical computing. Techniques such as exploratory data analysis, data visualization, simulation, and optimization methods, will be presented in the context of data analysis within a statistical computing environment.","STATS 7 and I&C SCI 31"],"STATS 110":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from experiments and surveys. Methods covered include two-sample procedures, analysis of variance, simple and multiple linear regression.","STATS 7 or STATS 8 or AP90 or (STATS 120A and STATS 120B and STATS 120C). AP90 with a minimum score of 3"],"STATS 111":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys or experiments. Emphasizes application and understanding of methods for categorical data including contingency tables, logistic and Poisson regression, loglinear models.","STATS 110"],"STATS 112":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Data Analysis III","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal data from experiments and cohort studies. Topics covered include survival methods for censored time-to-event data, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations.","STATS 111"],"STATS 115":["STATS","Introduction to Bayesian Data Analysis","Basic Bayesian concepts and methods with emphasis on data analysis. Prior and posterior probability distributions, modeling, and Markov Chain Monte Carlo techniques are presented in the context of data analysis within a statistical computing environment.","STATS 120C. Recommended: STATS 110. "],"STATS 120A":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics I","Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Axiomatic definition of probability, random variables, probability distributions, expectation.","MATH 2A and MATH 2B and (MATH 2D or MATH 4)"],"STATS 120B":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics II","Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Point estimation, interval estimating, and testing hypotheses, Bayesian approaches to inference.","STATS 120A"],"STATS 120C":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics III","Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Linear regression, analysis or variance, model checking.","STATS 120B and (MATH 3A or MATH 6G or I&C SCI 6N)"],"STATS 140":["STATS","Multivariate Statistical Methods","Theory and application of multivariate statistical methods. Topics include statistical inference for the multivariate normal model and its extensions to multiple samples and regression, use of statistical packages for data visualization and reduction, discriminant analysis, cluster analysis, and factor analysis.","STATS 120C and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N)"],"STATS 170A":["STATS","Project in Data Science I","Problem definition and analysis, data representation, algorithm selection, solution validation, and results presentation. Students do team projects and lectures cover analysis alternatives, project planning, and data analysis issues. First quarter emphasizes approach selection, project planning, and experimental design.","r corequisite: STATS 68 and IN4MATX 43 and COMPSCI 122A and COMPSCI 178 and I&C SCI 46 and STATS 111"],"STATS 170B":["STATS","Project in Data Science II","Problem definition and analysis, data representation, algorithm selection, solution validation, and results presentation. Students do team projects and lectures cover analysis alternatives, project planning, and data analysis issues. Second quarter emphasizes project execution and analysis, and presentation of results.","r corequisite: STATS 170A and STATS 112. In Progress (IP) grade for STATS 170A is also accepted."],"STATS 199":["STATS","Individual Study","Individual research or investigations under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"STATS 200A":["STATS","Intermediate Probability and Statistical Theory","Basics of probability theory, random variables and basic transformations, univariate distributions--discrete and continuous, multivariate distributions.","STATS 120C"],"STATS 200AP":["STATS","Intermediate Probability and Statistical Theory I","Fundamental probability and distribution theory needed for statistical inference. Topics include axiomatic foundations of probability theory, discrete and continuous distributions, expectation and moment generating functions, multivariate distributions, transformations, sampling distributions, and limit theorems."," Knowledge of basic statistics and linear algebra; Calculus I-III."],"STATS 200B":["STATS","Intermediate Probability and Statistical Theory","Random samples, transformations, limit laws, normal distribution theory, introduction to stochastic processes, data reduction, point estimation (maximum likelihood).","STATS 200A"],"STATS 200BP":["STATS","Intermediate Probability and Statistical Theory II","Fundamental theory and methods for statistical inference. Topics include data reduction (sufficient, ancillary, and complete statistics), estimation (method of moments, maximum likelihood estimators, Bayes estimators), evaluating methods (mean squared error, best unbiased estimators, asymptotic evaluations), hypothesis testing, and confidence intervals.","STATS 200AP. "],"STATS 200C":["STATS","Intermediate Probability and Statistical Theory","Interval estimation, hypothesis testing, decision theory and Bayesian inference, basic linear model theory.","STATS 200B"],"STATS 201":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from experiments and surveys. Methods covered include two-sample procedures, analysis of variance, simple and multiple linear regression.","STATS 7 or STATS 8"],"STATS 202":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Data Analysis II","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys or experiments. Emphasizes application and understanding of methods for categorical data including contingency tables, logistic and Poisson regression, loglinear models.","STATS 201 or STATS 210"],"STATS 203":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Data Analysis III","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal data from experiments and cohort studies. Topics covered include survival methods for censored time-to-event data, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations.","STATS 202"],"STATS 205":["STATS","Introduction to Bayesian Data Analysis","Basic Bayesian concepts and methods with emphasis on data analysis.  Special emphasis on specification of prior distributions.  Development for one-two samples and on to binary, Poisson and linear regression.  Analyses performed using free OpenBugs software.","STATS 120C. Recommended: STATS 201 or STATS 210."],"STATS 205P":["STATS","Bayesian Data Analysis","Covers basic Bayesian concepts and methods with emphasis on data analysis. Special emphasis on specification of prior distributions. Development of methods and theory for one and two samples, binary, Poisson, and linear regression.","STATS 200AP and STATS 200BP and STATS 210P"],"STATS 210":["STATS","Statistical Methods I: Linear Models","Statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys and experiments. Topics include randomization and model-based inference, two-sample methods, analysis of variance, linear regression and model diagnostics.","Knowledge of basic statistics, calculus, linear algebra."],"STATS 210A":["STATS","Statistical Methods I: Linear Models","Statistical methods for analyzing data from surveys and experiments. Topics include randomization and model-based inference, two-sample methods, analysis of variance, linear regression, and model diagnostics."," Knowledge of basic statistics (at the level of STATS 7), calculus, and linear algebra."],"STATS 210B":["STATS","Statistical Methods II: Categorical Data","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing discrete and non-normal outcomes. Emphasizes the development and application of methods for categorical data, including contingency tables, logistic and Poisson regression, loglinear models.","STATS 210. May not be taken for graduate credit by Ph.D. students in Statistics."],"STATS 210C":["STATS","Statistical Methods III: Longitudinal Data","Introduction to statistical methods for analyzing longitudinal outcomes. Emphasizes the development and application of regression methods for correlated and censored outcomes. Methods for continuous and discrete correlated outcomes, as well as censored outcomes, are covered.","STATS 210B. May not be taken for graduate credit by Ph.D. students in Statistics."],"STATS 210P":["STATS","Statistical Methods I","Statistical methods for analyzing data from multi-variable observational studies and experiments. Topics include model selection and model diagnostics for simple and multiple linear regression and generalized linear models.","STATS 200AP and STATS 200BP. Required: Knowledge of basic statistics and linear algebra."],"STATS 211":["STATS","Statistical Methods II: Generalized Linear Models","Development of the theory and application of generalized linear models. Topics include likelihood estimation and asymptotic distributional theory for exponential families, quasi-likelihood and mixed model development. Emphasizes methodological development and application to real scientific problems.","r corequisite: STATS 210"],"STATS 211P":["STATS","Statistical Methods II","Statistical methods for designing experiments, visualizing, and analyzing experimental and observational data using generalized regression models, multivariate analysis, and methods suitable for dependent data.","STATS 210P"],"STATS 212":["STATS","Statistical Methods III: Methods for Correlated Data","Development and application of statistical methods for analyzing corrected data. Topics covered include repeated measures ANOVA, linear mixed models, non-linear mixed effects models, and generalized estimating equations.  Emphasizes both theoretical development and application of the presented methodology.","STATS 211"],"STATS 220A":["STATS","Advanced Probability and Statistics Topics","Advanced topics in probability and statistical inference including measure theoretic probability, large sample theory, decision theory, resampling and Monte Carlo methods, nonparametric methods.","STATS 200C"],"STATS 220B":["STATS","Advanced Probability and Statistics Topics","Advanced topics in probability and statistical inference, including measure theoretic probability, large sample theory, decision theory, resampling and Monte Carlo methods, nonparametric methods.","STATS 220A and MATH 140B"],"STATS 225":["STATS","Bayesian Statistical Analysis","Introduction to the Bayesian approach to statistical inference. Topics include univariate and multivariate models, choice of prior distributions, hierarchical models, computation including Markov chain Monte Carlo, model checking, and model selection.","STATS 205 and STATS 230"],"STATS 226":["STATS","Advanced Topics in Modern Bayesian Statistical Inference","Modern Bayesian Statistics: selected topics from theory of Markov chains, application of theory to modern methods of Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling; Bayesian non-parametric and semiparametric modeling, including Dirichlet Process Mixtures; Mixtures of Polya Trees.","STATS 200C and STATS 225"],"STATS 230":["STATS","Statistical Computing Methods","Numerical computations and algorithms with applications in statistics. Topics include optimization methods including the EM algorithm, random number generation and simulation, Markov chain simulation tools, and numerical integration.","Two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in probability and statistics."],"STATS 235":["STATS","Modern Data Analysis Methods ","Introduces selected modern tools for data analysis. Emphasizes use of computational and resampling techniques for data analyses when the data do not conform to standard toolbox of regression models and\/or complexity of modeling problem threatens validity of standard methods.","STATS 120C and STATS 205 and (STATS 201 or STATS 210)"],"STATS 240":["STATS","Multivariate Statistical Methods","Theory and application of multivariate statistical methods. Topics include statistical inference for the multivariate normal model and its extensions to multiple samples and regression, use of statistical packages for data visualization and reduction, discriminant analysis, cluster analysis, and factor analysis.","STATS 120C and (MATH 3A or I&C SCI 6N)"],"STATS 240P":["STATS","Multivariate Statistical Methods","Theory and application of multivariate statistical methods. Topics include statistical inference for the multivariate normal model and its extensions to multiple samples and regression, use of statistical packages for data visualization and dimension reduction, discriminant analysis, cluster analysis, factor analysis.","STATS 200AP and STATS 200BP"],"STATS 245":["STATS","Time Series Analysis","Statistical models for analysis of time series from time and frequency domain perspectives. Emphasizes theory and application of time series data analysis methods. Topics include ARMA\/ARIMA models, model identification\/estimation, linear operators, Fourier analysis, spectral estimation, state space models, Kalman filter.","r corequisite: STATS 201 or STATS 210"],"STATS 245P":["STATS","Time Series Analysis","Statistical models for time series. Topics include linear models for trends; stationary time-series; non-stationary time series; forecasting and Kalman filtering; time-series smoothing; seasonal models; ARCH, GARCH and stochastic volatility models; multivariate time series; vector autoregressive models; spectral analysis; case studies.","STATS 200AP and STATS 200BP"],"STATS 250":["STATS","Biostatistics","Statistical methods commonly used to analyze data arising from clinical studies. Topics include analysis of observational studies and randomized clinical trials, techniques in the analysis of survival and longitudinal data, approaches to handling missing data, meta-analysis, nonparametric methods.","STATS 210"],"STATS 255":["STATS","Statistical Methods for Survival Data","Statistical methods for analyzing survival data from cohort studies. Topics include parametric and nonparametric methods, the Kaplan-Meier estimator, log-rank tests, regression models, the Cox proportional hazards model and accelerated failure time models, efficient sampling designs, discrete survival models.","STATS 210"],"STATS 257":["STATS","Introduction to Statistical Genetics","Provides students with knowledge of the basic principles, concepts, and methods used in statistical genetic research. Topics include principles of population genetics, and statistical methods for family- and population-based studies.","Two quarters of upper-division or graduate training in statistical methods."],"STATS 260":["STATS","Inference with Missing Data","Statistical methods and theory useful for analysis of multivariate data with partially observed variables. Bayesian and likelihood-based methods developed. Topics include EM-type algorithms, MCMC samplers, multiple imputation, and general location model. Applications from economics, education, and medicine are discussed.","r corequisite: STATS 210 or STATS 200C. STATS 230."],"STATS 262":["STATS","Theory and Practice of Sample Surveys","Basic techniques and statistical methods used in designing surveys and analyzing collected survey data. Topics include simple random sampling, ratio and regression estimates, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, sampling with unequal probabilities, multistage sampling, and methods to handle nonresponse.","STATS 120C"],"STATS 262P":["STATS","Theory and Practice of Sample Survey","Basic techniques and statistical methods for designing surveys and analyzing collected survey data. Topics include simple random sampling, ratio and regression estimates, stratified sampling, cluster sampling, sampling with unequal probabilities, multistage sampling, and methods to handle nonresponse.","STATS 200AP and STATS 200BP"],"STATS 265":["STATS","Causal Inference","Various approaches to causal inference focusing on the Rubin causal model and propensity-score methods. Topics include randomized experiments, observational studies, non-compliance, ignorable and non-ignorable treatment assignment, instrumental variables, and sensitivity analysis. Applications from economics, politics, education, and medicine.","STATS 200C and STATS 210"],"STATS 270":["STATS","Stochastic Processes","Introduction to the theory and application of stochastic processes. Topics include Markov chains, continuous-time Markov processes, Poisson processes, and Brownian motion. Applications include Markov chain Monte Carlo methods and financial modeling (for example, option pricing).","STATS 120C"],"STATS 270P":["STATS","Stochastic Processes","Introduction to the theory and application of stochastic processes. Topics include Poisson processes, Markov chains, continuous-time Markov processes, and Brownian motion. Applications include Markov chain Monte Carlo methods and financial modeling (e.g. option pricing).","STATS 200AP and STATS 200BP"],"STATS 275":["STATS","Statistical Consulting","Training in collaborative research and practical application of statistics. Emphasis on effective communication as it relates to identifying scientific objectives, formulating a statistical analysis plan, choice of statistical methods, and interpretation of results and their limitations to non-statisticians.","STATS 203 or STATS 212 or STATS 210C. STATS 203 with a grade of B or better. STATS 212 with a grade of B or better. STATS 210C with a grade of B or better"],"STATS 280":["STATS","Seminar in Statistics","Periodic seminar series covering topics of current research in statistics and its application.",""],"STATS 281A":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics I","Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Axiomatic definition of probability, random variables, probability distributions, expectation.",""],"STATS 281B":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics II","Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Point estimation, interval estimating, and testing hypotheses, Bayesian approaches to inference.",""],"STATS 281C":["STATS","Introduction to Probability and Statistics III","Introduction to basic principles of probability and statistical inference. Contingency table analysis, linear regression, analysis of variance, model checking.",""],"STATS 295":["STATS","Special Topics in Statistics","Studies in selected areas of statistics. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"STATS 298":["STATS","Thesis Supervision","Individual research or investigation conducted in preparation for the M.S. thesis option or the dissertation requirements for the Ph.D. program.",""],"STATS 299":["STATS","Individual Study","Individual research or investigation under the direction of an individual faculty member.",""],"UCDC 170":["UCDC","Washington DC Internship","Supervised internship (20-40 hours per week) in Washington DC government, nonprofit, or private institution consistent with student's interest.","Selected for Washington DC Center Program."],"UCDC 180":["UCDC","Washington-Themed Seminar","UCDC core course (multiple topics offered each quarter). Enhances students' experiential learning and imparts knowledge and skills to help them transition into public service\/private sector positions. One core course per quarter mandatory for all participants in Washington DC Center Program.","Selected for Washington DC Center Program."],"UCDC 190":["UCDC","Washington DC Elective","Studies in selected areas related to the UC Washington, DC Center Program (UCDC).","Selected for Washington DC Center Program."],"UNI AFF 1A":["UNI AFF","Student Participation","Campus projects with a University department to enrich academic growth and development as well as academic growth and development of UCI. Includes 30 hours per quarter working on proposed project under faculty\/staff supervision. Paper required.","Project must be approved by a Student Affairs Department head and the instructor."],"UNI AFF 1B":["UNI AFF","Student Participation","Campus projects with a University department to enrich academic growth and development as well as academic growth and development of UCI. Includes 30 hours per quarter working on proposed project under faculty\/staff supervision. Paper required.","UNI AFF 1A"],"UNI AFF 1C":["UNI AFF","Student Participation","Campus projects with a University department to enrich academic growth and development as well as academic growth and development of UCI. Includes 30 hours per quarter working on proposed project under faculty\/staff supervision. Paper required.","UNI AFF 1B"],"UNI STU 1":["UNI STU","Freshman Experience","An introduction to the freshman experience provides an overview of the University's aims and resources and exploration of developmental theories and skills necessary for academic success. Attention is also paid to questions of personal development and major choice.  Materials fee.",""],"UNI STU 3":["UNI STU","Mini-Seminars        ","Designed primarily for freshmen as introduction to scholarly inquiry. Each section is taught by a faculty member from one of the academic disciplines and presents interesting and challenging topics representing the instructor's interest. Students participate in discussions, presentations, and projects.",""],"UNI STU 6":["UNI STU","University Studies International Village Seminar","Seminars held in International Village that are specifically designed to either (a) introduce visiting international students to the U.S. and\/or local area and institutions or (b) engage both international and U.S. students in discussion of topics of international interest.",""],"UNI STU 7":["UNI STU","UTeach: Student-Taught Seminar","Student-taught seminar courses on selected topics. Topics vary each year according to the interest of the students teaching the classes.",""],"UNI STU 10":["UNI STU","Introduction to Civic and Community Engagement and Community Research","Provides a foundation for understanding the role of public scholarship, civic engagement, and social action, and the relationship between service learning and engaged citizenship. Introduces key theoretical and research methodologies on the traditions and innovations of civic and community engagement.",""],"UNI STU 18":["UNI STU","Student Leadership Institute for Climate Resilience ","An overview of some of the major challenges and opportunities we face in building community climate resilience, as well as tools for action.",""],"UNI STU H30A":["UNI STU","Critical Analysis of Health Science Literature","Focuses on evaluation of scientific literature. Aspects of scientific inquiry include scientific method, scientific research design, statistical analysis, and publication processes. Addresses why scientific inquiry cannot be separated from sociocultural influences and concerns. Examples drawn from research on health-related issues.",""],"UNI STU H30B":["UNI STU","Environmental Issues Affecting the Sustainability of Societies I","Focuses on several environmental challenges facing the world today, and explores the problem, possible solutions, and their scientific, technical, and social constraints. Models for systems, their assumptions, predictive uncertainty, and interpretation, play a large role.","UNI STU H30A. UNI STU H30A with a grade of C or better"],"UNI STU H30C":["UNI STU","Environmental Issues Affecting the Sustainability of Societies II","Focuses on how we can use Earth's resources, e.g., food and water, in a more sustainable way, exploring their scientific, technical, and social constraints.","UNI STU H30B. UNI STU H30B with a grade of C or better"],"UNI STU H30D":["UNI STU","Social Science Perspectives on the Sustainability of Societies","Introduces the perspectives of social science using examples from different countries to explore how social issues regarding sustainability are influenced by a society's changing economic and political institutions, and how economic, political, and other social choices affect their sustainability.","EARTHSS H30C. EARTHSS H30C with a grade of C or better"],"UNI STU H30E":["UNI STU","Cities: Focal Point for Sustainability Problems and Solutions I ","Explores the nature of cities, focusing on the challenges facing cities today, their possible solutions, and the technical and social constraints on those solutions.","SOC SCI H30D"],"UNI STU H30F":["UNI STU","Cities: Focal Point for Sustainability Problems and Solutions II","Explores the nature of cities, focusing on the challenges facing cities today, their possible solutions, and the technical and social constraints on those solutions.","UPPP H30E"],"UNI STU 43":["UNI STU","Topics in Illuminations ","This course connects students to Illuminations, the Chancellor's Arts and Culture Initiative. Students will attend five Illuminations-sponsored events and engage in brief preparatory and reflective activities in response to these events.",""],"UNI STU 45":["UNI STU","Graduate School Opportunities and Preparation","Explores the opportunities associated with graduate school by considering a wide range of disciplines and career paths. Reviews professional and academic paths in graduate school and the ways to prepare for a chosen path.",""],"UNI STU H80":["UNI STU","Neurodivergent","Examines the evolution of the diagnosis of autism through history. Deep inquiry of the neuroscience, etiology, and genetics of neurodivergent individuals as well as a review of the validity of the varied treatments will inform critical thinking.",""],"UNI STU 83":["UNI STU","Pathways to University Success","Helps first-year students transition to UC Irvine and promotes a successful University experience. Students learn about academic resources and programs that support acclimation to the campus and enhance academic development through lectures, discussions, and a range of co-curricular activities.",""],"UNI STU 84":["UNI STU","Bridges to University Success","Helps first-year students transition to UC Irvine and promotes a successful University experience. Students learn about academic resources\/programs that support acclimation to the campus and enhance academic development through lectures, writing laboratories, discussions, and a range of co-curricular activities.",""],"UNI STU 85A":["UNI STU","Leading from Within","Students examine characteristics and behaviors of effective leaders. Study the history and theoretical framework for understanding effective leadership. In addition, examine their own leadership strengths and weakness and become familiar with the theory behind and use of comprehensive self-assessment tools.",""],"UNI STU 85B":["UNI STU","Leading Others","Students examine best practices within a team environment. They learn goal setting, diagnosing performance problems, designing solutions, and recognizing relevant differences in culture, priorities, and values within a team through lectures, writing, discussions, and practical activities.",""],"UNI STU 85C":["UNI STU","Leading Change","Focused on a global viewpoint, students learn the theoretical framework behind innovation and change management. Develop innovative solutions to real-world challenges, design strategies to bring an expansive vision into fruition, and learn to communicate a vision and strategies.",""],"UNI STU 93":["UNI STU","Strategies for Success","Designed to develop good study skills in technical fields and the participation of students as active learners in their education. Topics include time management, analytical thinking, text analysis, academic survival strategies, and goal setting.",""],"UNI STU 100":["UNI STU","Doing Research in the Community","Critically reimagines the research endeavor and its participants\/outcomes. Grapples with methods, values, and relationships involved in research. Explores alternative conceptions of research; focus is community-based. Students work in teams on real-world community research projects with faculty mentors and community partners.","UNI STU 10"],"UNI STU 110":["UNI STU","Philanthropy in the Community","Introduces the role of community engagement, social action and philanthropy. Examines theories and practices of philanthropy, and strategies for social change. Involves hand-on engagement with philanthropy in the form of students making decisions about the distribution of a real fund.",""],"UNI STU 170":["UNI STU","Advanced Internship in Undergraduate Education","Advanced interns have a year's internship experience and return to contribute to Undergraduate Education programs in a leadership position. Students work three-five hours per week in a DUE office to coordinate or lead less-experienced interns and\/or events.","UNI AFF 1A and UNI AFF 1B and UNI AFF 1C"],"UNI STU 175":["UNI STU","Methods and Application in Small Group Instruction","Explores various theories and methods of learning and development and their practical application in small group settings. Peer tutors receive instruction in the design, implementation, and evaluation of an effective learning environment for undergraduate students.",""],"UNI STU 176":["UNI STU","Pedagogy of Small Group Facilitation - LAs","Overview and readings in evidence-based instruction for undergraduate learning assistants. LAs receive instruction, training, and feedback on effective small group facilitation and active learning. To be taken while serving as a learning assistant in a course.",""],"UNI STU H176A":["UNI STU","Campuswide Honors Thesis Seminar","Supports the honors thesis research activities of Campuswide Honors Collegium students. Students set research goals, discuss, and develop their research interests.",""],"UNI STU H176C":["UNI STU","Campuswide Honors Thesis Seminar","Supports the honors thesis research activities of Campuswide Honors Collegium students. Students work with each other to improve both written and spoken presentations of their results.","UNI STU H176A"],"UNI STU 190":["UNI STU","Teaching Seminar: Theory and Practice","For students selected to be discussion leaders for University Studies 2. Models of teaching, developmental theory applied to college freshmen, curriculum development. Practice of teaching techniques and group management skills.",""],"UNI STU 192":["UNI STU","Group Project for Discussion Leaders","For discussion leaders for University Studies 2. Weekly discussion group training for leading effective groups in addition to evaluations of weekly discussion sections and completion of a special project on issues of freshman development.  Materials fee.",""],"UNI STU 193":["UNI STU","Internship","Enables students from all majors to receive credit for an approved internship on or off-campus.  Internship sites may be public or private, for profit or non-profit agencies, organizations, companies, or corporations offering paid or unpaid learning experiences.",""],"UNI STU 196":["UNI STU","Directed Studies in Undergraduate Education","Students do directed study (research, readings, etc.) on a topic related to Undergraduate Education under the supervision of one of the faculty who serve as Deans or Faculty Directors in the Division of Undergraduate Education.",""],"UNI STU 197A":["UNI STU","UTeach Special Study","Students accepted to teach a UTeach course in spring quarter enroll in Special or Independent Study with their faculty mentor during the preceding fall quarter to develop their detailed course syllabus.",""],"UNI STU 197B":["UNI STU","UTeach: Teaching Theory and Practice","Students accepted to teach a UTeach course in spring quarter enroll during the winter to develop their teaching skills in preparation for teaching the following quarter.","UNI STU 197A"],"UNI STU 197C":["UNI STU","UTeach: Teaching Practicum","Students selected to teach in the UTeach Program teach their courses and meet weekly in a seminar to continue to develop and enhance their teaching skills.","UNI STU 197B"],"UNI STU 197D":["UNI STU","Study Abroad Experiential Learning","Study abroad on an approved program. Complete critical reflection (written paper, blog, etc.) submitted no later than the end of the quarter following the completion of the study abroad program. Enroll while studying abroad or the quarter immediately following return.",""],"UNI STU 197E":["UNI STU","Reflections While Abroad","For students while they are studying abroad; maximizing learning outcomes by critically reflecting on learning experiences while abroad. Topics include cultural observations, professional issues, cultural competence, etc. Participants are located in different countries around the world.",""],"UNI STU 197F":["UNI STU","Internship Plus","Provides training and development of career readiness competencies in parallel with a student's internship experience. Internship sites may be public or private, for profit or non-profit agencies, organizations, companies, or corporations offering paid or unpaid learning experiences.",""],"UNI STU 198":["UNI STU","Mentored Learning Assistant Field Work","Oversight of trained learning assistants by the course instructor, including training in the discipline and responsibilities associated with supporting active group work. Instructor mentors LAs in how assisting small groups supports their career goals.",""],"UNI STU 231":["UNI STU","NIH Fellowship Writing Skills","Designed for graduate students in biomedical science departments who are preparing to write applications for NRSA (F30\/F31) fellowships from the NIH. It involves a mixture of lectures, panel discussions, and peer review of writing samples.",""],"UNI STU 296":["UNI STU","Graduate Legal Studies ","Monthly faculty\/student colloquium to present and discuss socio-legal related research\/issues. Course convened by Law School faculty with other faculty participation. Required for PLGS students enrolled in Law portion of degree.",""],"UNI STU 297":["UNI STU","California Community College Internship","The California Community College Internship offers graduate students the opportunity to learn about faculty life, governance, and teaching at local community colleges. Structures fieldwork for students to participate in and reflect on the educational mission of community colleges.","Teaching experience."],"UNI STU 390A":["UNI STU","Advanced Pedagogy and Academic Job Preparation","Focuses on advanced pedagogical research and practices. Students design and implement an integrated curriculum in the context of the TA Professional Development Program. Prepare for the academic job market by developing application materials and reviewing Pedagogical Fellow applicants.",""],"UNI STU 390B":["UNI STU","Advanced Pedagogy and Academic Job Preparation","Focuses on advanced pedagogical research and practices. Students design and implement an integrated curriculum in the context of the TA Professional Development Program. Prepare for the academic job market by developing application materials and reviewing Pedagogical Fellow applicants.","UNI STU 390A"],"UNI STU 390C":["UNI STU","Advanced Pedagogy and Academic Job Preparation","Focuses on advanced pedagogical research and practices. Students design and implement an integrated curriculum in the context of the TA Professional Development Program. Prepare for the academic job market by developing application materials and reviewing Pedagogical Fellow applicants.","UNI STU 390B"],"UNI STU 390X":["UNI STU","Developing Teaching Excellence","An introduction to evidence-based instructional design and methods, specifically for higher education courses. Students practice, observe, and design instruction based on pedagogical literature. Meets most of the requirements for the Certificate in Teaching Excellence Program.",""],"UNI STU 390Z":["UNI STU","Advanced Course Design for Instructors of Record","Confirmed instructors of record who have earned the Certificate in Teaching Excellence design their course (syllabus, lesson plans, activities, assessments, assignments) using best practices in pedagogy. By the end of the course, participants have their full course mapped.","Certificate of Teaching Excellence required, proof of instructor of record appointment required."],"UNI STU 395":["UNI STU","Seminar for Teaching as Research","Preparation and implementation of a teaching as research project in higher education. Participants learn research, experimental design, human subjects, and statistical analysis.","UNI STU 390B"],"UPPP 4":["UPPP","Introduction to Urban Studies","Introduces the substantive areas, concepts, and tools in the field of urban studies.  Acquaints students with physical, environmental, social, economic, and political dimensions of cities. Examines the challenges facing cities, including poverty, sustainability, development, globalization, and others.",""],"UPPP 5":["UPPP","Introduction to Urban Planning and Policy","Introduces students to the basic issues in urban planning and public policy.",""],"UPPP 8":["UPPP","Introduction to Environmental Analysis and Design","Overview of general concepts, theoretical principles, and analytical techniques for investigating environmental systems. Integrates tools from natural and social sciences to analyze contemporary environmental challenges such as pollution, resource acquisition, facility and ecosystem design, impact assessments, formulation of environmental policy.",""],"UPPP 40":["UPPP","Urban Sociology","Overview of theoretical, substantive, and policy issues in urban sociology.  History of urbanization, the school of human ecology, and recent trends regarding urbanism.  Time is devoted to understanding the causes and possible solutions to urban problems.",""],"UPPP 100":["UPPP","Special Topics in Urban Studies","Course content varies with interest of the instructor.",""],"UPPP 101":["UPPP","History of Cities","Surveys the global and historical co-evolution of cities and social institutions, including religion, the economy, governance, the arts, technology, and family life.",""],"UPPP 102":["UPPP","Urban Inequality","Examines structural inequality and the influence that urbanization has in affecting race, ethnic, and class relations. Explores how race\/ethnicity, class, urban space, housing, economic development, public education, and land policy intersect in cities, both historically and today.",""],"UPPP 103":["UPPP","Comparative Approaches to Urban Regions","An introduction to comparative urbanization in developing countries. Introduces students to the geography, history, and theories of urbanization, and then reviews urban planning, public policy, and governance.",""],"UPPP 104":["UPPP","Urban America        ","Students examine the historical, social, political, and economic factors that contributed to the construction of the American urban context, one that is poverty concentrated and racially\/ethnically segregated. Students also critically assess the consequence of growing up in America's urban neighborhoods.",""],"UPPP 107":["UPPP","Urban and Regional Planning","Important substantive areas, concepts, tools in the field of urban and regional planning. Topics include: forces that have historically guided and are currently guiding U.S. urbanization; land use, economic development, housing and community development, environmental planning; legal, environmental, governmental contexts.",""],"UPPP 108":["UPPP","Cities and Transportation","The relationship between urban areas and transportation systems. Economic analysis of cities, transportation and urban form, highway congestion, environmental impacts of transportation, public transit, land use and transportation, and political influences on transportation planning.",""],"UPPP 109":["UPPP","Housing and Urban Development Policy","Surveys public policy issues and develops analytic techniques in the areas of housing and urban development. Examines a range of policy topics including housing assistance to low- and moderate-income families, housing finance system, incentives for economic development, and neighborhood preservation.","Recommended: Previous course work in economics."],"UPPP 110":["UPPP","Urban Economic Development Policy","Theoretical and practical perspectives on local economic development policy.  Integrates economic, planning, and political perspectives. Overview of economic role of cities and metropolitan areas. Specific development issues include: link between taxes, regulation, job growth; redevelopment planning; evaluation economic development policy.",""],"UPPP 111":["UPPP","Climate Solutions","Introduction to climate change science and impacts on the health of people and the planet with a focus on the multi-dimensional aspects of solutions to the climate crisis.",""],"UPPP 112":["UPPP","Foundations of Community Health","A social ecological framework for understanding community health is presented. Measures of individual and community health are compared, and the influence of personal and environmental factors on individual, group, and population health is examined. Community health promotion strategies are discussed.",""],"UPPP 113":["UPPP","Poverty and Change in Developing Countries","Focuses on poverty in developing countries.  Analyzes the magnitude and changing nature of poverty in the global south. Critically examines poverty conceptualized in terms of economic deprivation, well-being, and social exclusion.",""],"UPPP 114W":["UPPP","Advanced Research Methods","For students planning to conduct senior research projects or apply to graduate school in social research fields. Topics include reviewing literature, preparing a research proposal, protecting human subjects, citing scholarly work, building measures, estimating sample size, interview and presentation skills.","SE 10 and SE 13. Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"UPPP 115":["UPPP","Global Poverty and Inequality in the 21st Century","Explores a multidisciplinary understanding of poverty and inequality in the 21st century and assesses impact of education, health, technology, and other interventions. Course offered online only.",""],"UPPP 117":["UPPP","Environmental Justice","Engages students to critically analyze and evaluate environmental problems, environmental responses, and planning and policy debates regarding \"environmental justice\" - essentially the race, class, and equity implications of environmental problems and policies.",""],"UPPP 118":["UPPP","Gentrification","Gentrification is a complex process that changes the makeup of neighborhoods and fuels political and policy conflicts. Students are provided with tools to understand the process and conceive of policies to ensure more inclusive and equitable cities.",""],"UPPP 120":["UPPP","Introduction to GIS for Planning and Policy","Provides hands-on experience creating, visualizing, and interpreting spatial data, with a focus on Geographic Information Systems (GIS) applications for urban planning and public policy.",""],"UPPP 125":["UPPP","Advanced Geographic Information Systems (GIS)","Provides hands-on experience using geoprocessing to analyze spatial data and using maps to visualize and communicate findings, with a focus on Geographic Information Systems (GIS) applications for urban planning and public policy.","UPPP 120. UPPP 120 with a grade of C or better"],"UPPP 127":["UPPP","Spatial Analysis Project ","As the capstone in the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) degree specialization, students are guided through the process of applying their GIS skills to designing and conducting an original spatial research project, focusing on research design and research methods.","UPPP 125 and UPPP 120. UPPP 125 with a grade of C or better. UPPP 120 with a grade of C or better"],"UPPP 129":["UPPP","American Public Policy","Focuses on the development and implementation of public policy in the United States. Lectures cover theoretical models of the policy process as well as significant problems facing contemporary American decision-makers.",""],"UPPP 130":["UPPP","Cities and Food  ","Explores the role of cities in transforming global diets: how urbanization has shaped what and how we eat, and what the co-evolution of diets and city life portend for the future.",""],"UPPP 131":["UPPP","Environmental Sustainability I","Provides an introduction to sustainability from different points of view; historical, scientific, political, ethical, and economic.",""],"UPPP 132":["UPPP","Environmental Sustainability II","Investigates how sustainability can be implemented in a variety of contexts including water, energy, non-renewable resources, biodiversity, and urban policy, and also how it could be measured.",""],"UPPP 133":["UPPP","Environmental Law and Policy ","Environmental law as a combination of traditional legal principles and newly created statutes, rules, and decisions applied to environmental protection. Investigates roles of courts, legislature, executive branch and administrative agencies, and private citizens attempting to regulate environmental quality.",""],"UPPP 139":["UPPP","Water Resource Policy","Examination of contemporary water problems worldwide, with particular attention to the competing water demands in the western U.S., and water demand by the poor in developing countries. History and analysis of U.S. water policies at local, state, and federal levels.",""],"UPPP 142":["UPPP","Environmental Hazards in an Urbanizing World","Development patterns, including urbanization, can contribute to environmental hazard severity. Humans can plan, mitigate, and prepare to reduce costly hazard losses. Students learn about environmental hazards and human response to these threats.",""],"UPPP 145":["UPPP","Environmental Governance","How should the environment be managed and who should be responsible? What is effective environmental management, and for whom? These questions are answered by exploring traditional and emerging theoretical frameworks and applying them to real world environmental challenges.",""],"UPPP 146":["UPPP","Principles of Economics for Planning and Policy","Provides an introduction into economics for planning and policy students.",""],"UPPP 152":["UPPP","Cultural Ecology and Environmental Design","Introduction to cultural ecology and environmental and architectural design. Addresses the understanding of people's relationships with their built environments, the basic elements of architecture, architectural analysis, and cultural analysis are covered. Examines values in design and design for multicultural societies.",""],"UPPP 153":["UPPP","Elements of Environmental Design","Basic elements of environmental design such as scale, proportion, rhythm, color, sound, lighting, surfaces, texture, architectural definition of spaces, volumes, massing volumetric analysis, solids and voids, and cultural aspects of design. Excitement and creativity in design, imageability.",""],"UPPP 155":["UPPP","Urban Design Principles","Introduction to principles of urban design and its applications.  Study of contemporary and traditional theories of urban design formulated to improve physical characteristics of built environment to facilitate an enhanced quality of life.  A variety of case studies are discussed.",""],"UPPP 166":["UPPP","Urban Politics and Policy ","Examines why and how urban policies are enacted and carried out in contemporary U.S. cities and regions. Topics include evolution and organization of city governments and policymaking over the past century; who directs public policy and controls how cities develop.",""],"UPPP 167":["UPPP","Public Policy and Governance","Exposes students to best practices that assure effective planning and implementation of policies and programs in government, business, and nonprofit sectors. Includes guest lecturers who are proven leaders in four principal institutions of community: business, education, government, and non-profit.",""],"UPPP 170":["UPPP","Health Policy","Considers social and economic aspects of health and disease in the United States.  What are the proper roles of the individual, community, and government in improving health and health care?  International comparisons will be made wherever possible.",""],"UPPP 172":["UPPP","Latino Metropolis","Explores the processes of Latino urbanization in the United States and the spatialization of Latino identities, particularly in the context of Southern California with selected comparisons drawing from other cities.",""],"UPPP 177":["UPPP","Chicano Movement","Explores the history of Mexicans in the U.S. with particular attention paid to their integration into the U.S. capitalist economy.  Examines this economic history and the Chicano movement, \"El Movimiento,\" within the wide context of socio-economic change.",""],"UPPP 178":["UPPP","International Divided Cities","Investigates urban divisions in international cities where deep-seated nationalistic ethnic differences create pressures for intergroup conflicts, autonomy, or territorial separation, and can incite violence. Urban political polarization as it is manifest in the urban setting.",""],"UPPP 190":["UPPP","Applied Statistics in Social and Behavioral Research","Covers statistical techniques used to describe and make generalizations about phenomena represented by data. Hands-on experience in data analysis and interpretation using statistical software (SPSS, STATA) is emphasized. Topics include data visualization, ANOVA, multiple regression, and categorical data analyses.","SE 13"],"UPPP 202":["UPPP","History of Urban Planning","Introduction to the historical roots and fundamental perspectives of urban and regional planning.  Exploration of the significant historical phases and personalities which have shaped the profession.  The roles and responsibilities, the limitations and potential, of urban planning.",""],"UPPP 203":["UPPP","Theoretical Foundations of Planning","Intellectual excursion into central themes in policy and planning, including philosophy of the market, institutionalization of space, hypostatizations of policy, constructions of communities, logics of spatial analysis. Objective is engagement of the professional in thoughtful reflections on practice and institutions.",""],"UPPP 204":["UPPP","Plan Development and Communication ","Graphic representation and communication of physical place characteristics, design and physical planning ideas, and concepts using a variety of graphic techniques of free hand drawing, sketching, orthographic representations, scale drawings, 3D representations, maps, photo-documentation, and various media.",""],"UPPP 205":["UPPP","Environmental Economics and Policy","Provides a broad introduction to environmental economics and to environmental policy.  Environmental problems facing the United States and Europe are analyzed, and whenever possible, the environmental problems facing developing countries.",""],"UPPP 206":["UPPP","Microeconomic Analysis for Urban Planning","Provides students with a working knowledge of basic microeconomic concepts.  Emphasizes applications related to urban planning and policy analysis.  Topics covered include demand analysis, firm behavior, market structure, public goods, externalities, and the role of economics in land markets.",""],"UPPP 207":["UPPP","Land-Use Law","Investigates legal and institutional frameworks for development control. Review of constitutional issues implicated in land-use regulation. Traces development control historically and analyzes contemporary approaches to land-use control which reflect environmental and economic development concerns.",""],"UPPP 209":["UPPP","Qualitative Research Methods: Overview","Introduction to fundamentals of \"qualitative\" research and non-positivistic inquiry. Formulation of research questions, selection of method, data collection techniques, and analysis (briefly). Overview of selected methods from ethnography, naturalistic field research, phenomenology, ethnoarchaeology, critical approaches, and others.",""],"UPPP 210":["UPPP","Practice Experience   ","Provides Master of Urban and Regional Planning students an opportunity to link classroom knowledge with real planning situations through a 10-week unpaid practice experience.",""],"UPPP 212":["UPPP","Transportation Planning and Policy","Introduces current topics in transportation planning. Includes an analysis of the economic role of transportation in urban areas, land-use impacts of transportation projects, traffic congestion, air quality, alternatives to the automobile, and other transportation topics.",""],"UPPP 213":["UPPP","Advanced Qualitative Methods: Analyzing Qualitative Data","Introduction to the theory and practice of analyzing qualitative data. Students must have already learned about data collection and research design for qualitative research and must have qualitative data they can analyze.",""],"UPPP 214":["UPPP","Quantitative Analysis for Planners","Introduces students to the basic statistical concepts used to address issues of public concern.  Prepares students to perform, interpret, and evaluate quantitative data analyses commonly used in professional studies.",""],"UPPP 215":["UPPP","Analytical Methods for Planning","Emphasizes the development of analytical techniques proven useful in the fields of management and administration.  Topics include multiple regression, cost-benefit analysis and discounting, decision trees, and other techniques useful for the purposes of community analysis and planning.",""],"UPPP 216":["UPPP","Statistics and Methods for Public Policy","Introductory course with focus on gaining a sound understanding of what constitutes credible evidence in support of policy arguments and management decisions.",""],"UPPP 219":["UPPP","Information and Public Policy","Evaluates strengths and weaknesses of qualitative and quantitative methods and the data used in making public policy claims. Looks at the bases of certain widely accepted measures of poverty, growth, environmental quality, and the like.",""],"UPPP 220":["UPPP","Qualitative Methods: Fieldwork and Data Collection","Covers fieldwork, data collections techniques, and related issues for anti-positivistic research. Data collection techniques include observation, physical traces, participation, in-depth interview. Data checks include veracity, detail, completeness, rigor.",""],"UPPP 221":["UPPP","Public Policy","Explores different approaches to public policy analysis, the diverse conceptions of the goals and objectives that should be served by policy, and the appropriate role of the policy analyst.  Policy consequences are traced to indirect and subtle incentives and disincentives.",""],"UPPP 224":["UPPP","Environmental Politics and Policy","Reviews and critiques literature on discussion topics including: the nature and effectiveness of environmental movements and policies; the role of science and technology; the use of economic incentives in policy; decentralization of decision making; and creating arenas for public involvement.",""],"UPPP 225":["UPPP","Qualitative Methods for Public Policy","Fieldwork, data collections techniques, and related issues for anti-positivistic research. Data collection techniques include observation, physical traces, participation, in-depth interview. Data checks include veracity, detail, completeness, rigor.",""],"UPPP 227":["UPPP","Economics of Government","Prepares students to analyze public policy questions with tools from economics. By the end, students should be able to identify important economic issues in public policy debates and consume and critique economic research on these topics.",""],"UPPP 228":["UPPP","Demographics for Planning and Policy","Provides planning and policy practitioners with a condensed, nonspecialist orientation to the sources, applications, and interpretation of population statistics, and conveys the steps used in constructing local-area population forecasts and projections.",""],"UPPP 231":["UPPP","Transportation and Environmental Health","Critically evaluates how transportation can promote sustainable, healthy, and equitable cities. Examines the interaction of transportation systems with urban form, land use, community health, and environmental quality.",""],"UPPP 232":["UPPP","Water Policy and Planning","Examines major issues in global water management including privatization, emerging water quality challenges, water system planning, affordability, conservation strategies, and flood resilience. Emphasizes integrated understanding of economics, governance, environmental health, technology, and development.",""],"UPPP 235":["UPPP","Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Problem Solving in Planning","Explores the application of geographic information systems (GIS) in urban planning.  Steps through a GIS-based planning procedure that balances housing, jobs, tax base, utilities, transportation, and the natural environment.",""],"UPPP 237":["UPPP","Introduction to Geographic Information Systems","Application of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to the field of urban and regional planning.  Emphasizes current issues that occur in actual implementation settings. Lecture\/discussion followed by laboratory demonstrating the area of GIS discussed.  Offers \"hands-on\" student usage of GIS software.",""],"UPPP 239":["UPPP","Urban Design Theories and Applications","Introduction to contemporary and traditional theories of urban design and their applications.  Organized around one question:  How might planning and design of built environment contribute to making a good city?  National and international case studies are introduced.",""],"UPPP 240":["UPPP","Microeconomics and Public Policy","Introduces the fundamental principles of microeconomics that are required for applied policy analysis. Provides students with an intuitive understanding of the microeconomic approach, and familiarizes them with concepts used in applied public policy analysis.",""],"UPPP 243":["UPPP","Health Policy and Management","Multidisciplinary inquiry into theory and practice concerned with delivery, quantity, costs of health care for individuals and populations. Explores managerial and policy concerns regarding structure, process, outcomes of health services including the costs, financing, organization, outcomes, and accessibility of care.",""],"UPPP 244":["UPPP","Land-Use Policy","Examination of the role of public policy in guiding growth and development in urban and suburban environments.  Description of a wide-ranging set of growth policies, the rationales underlying their use, controversies and legal constraints, and evaluation of their effectiveness.",""],"UPPP 246":["UPPP","Housing Policy","Examines theories and practices of housing policy and the relationship of housing to larger neighborhood, community, and regional development issues. Considers the roles of private for-profit and not-for-profit developers, lenders, and all levels of government in the provision of housing.","Familiarity with basic statistics is required. "],"UPPP 251":["UPPP","Poverty and Development ","Examines competing conceptualizations, methods of measurement, and poverty alleviation strategies widely used in developing countries. Focuses on poverty conceptualized as economic deprivation, well-being, vulnerability, and social exclusion.",""],"UPPP 252":["UPPP","Issues in Environmental Law and Policy","Treatment of legal and policy strategies for promoting environmental protection and deterring environmental degradation within the context of other societal objectives. Topical approach with a focus on problems of special interest to criminologists and to environmental policy specialists.",""],"UPPP 260":["UPPP","Policy and Ethics      ","Examines the challenge of identifying ethical principles that can guide us in formulating and assessing public policy, the public policy process from an ethical perspective, and the ethics of the individual engaged in the public policy arena.",""],"UPPP 266":["UPPP","Economic Democracy    ","Explores a wide range of radical democratic and egalitarian visions (including but not limited to the Marxist tradition) for a more sane, just, and sustainable future.",""],"UPPP 271":["UPPP","Public Finance for Urban Planning","Introduction to public project financing, including overviews of major expenditure and revenue sources, budgeting processes, and the relationship between budgeting and planning. Practical skills covered include public financing methods, relevant mathematical analytic techniques, and grant writing.",""],"UPPP 272":["UPPP","Site Development","Basics of site plan review (e.g., site\/plot plans, floor plans, elevations) to ensure compliance with the zoning code, comparison of ministerial vs. discretionary review processes, Intersection of California Environmental Quality Act with review processes, understanding reporting requirements.",""],"UPPP 273":["UPPP","Global Urbanization","Examines the spread of cities worldwide in the 20th century. What are the political and economic causes of this process? What are the social-cultural, political, and economic effects? How is contemporary urbanization linked to global restructuring of other kinds.",""],"UPPP 274A":["UPPP","MPP Capstone Research Project and Briefing","Focuses on an issue by emphasizing all aspects of the policy process, including problem definition, mobilizing support, design, implementation, management, and entrepreneurship. Two quarters in length. Students work in teams and present their product to faculty, students, and policymakers.",""],"UPPP 275":["UPPP","Special Topics in Urban Planning","Special topics in urban and regional planning are offered from time to time, but not on a regular basis. Course content varies with interest of the instructor.",""],"UPPP 276":["UPPP","Planning for Sustainable Cities","Measurement, implementation, and evaluation of urban sustainability practices.",""],"UPPP 277":["UPPP","Site Planning and Design","Enhance understanding of planning documents, including site plans, sections, design guidelines that are part of the everyday practice of most planners. Students gain opportunities to create a physical end product that can be added to a professional portfolio.",""],"UPPP 279":["UPPP","Theories of Power and Empowerment","Studies different ways of thinking about power and its uses. Explores theories of power that inform various notions of empowerment, including resistance, participatory democracy, and workplace empowerment.",""],"UPPP 280":["UPPP","Transportation Practice","Broad survey of transportation policy issues that are confronting transportation planners, engineers, policymakers, and citizens.",""],"UPPP 281":["UPPP","Advanced Theory","Provides urban planning and public policy students with an introduction to advanced theory. Addresses broad theoretical approaches that cut across disciplinary and topical boundaries. Designed primarily for Ph.D. students.",""],"UPPP 282":["UPPP","Urban Design Studio for Planners: An Introduction","Introductory urban design for planners.  Organized around a variety of assignments to encourage learning by design in a studio setting. Students work on design projects and drawing assignments to learn practical aspects of urban design.",""],"UPPP 283":["UPPP","Collaborative Governance and Public Management","Introduction to inclusive management. To make effective use of public resources, public managers are inventing ways of managing that alter relationships within organizations, between organizations, between sectors, and with the public. Requires rethinking fundamentals such as leadership and motivation.",""],"UPPP 292":["UPPP","Professional Report","Workshop designed to assist M.U.R.P. students in conducting their professional reports.  Students select topics, design projects, conduct professional investigations, and write up reports.",""],"UPPP 294A":["UPPP","Urban Planning Practicum I","Engages students in practical planning projects in the community under a central theme within Planning. Students take a problem-solving approach and employ and further develop data gathering, analysis, graphic and oral communication, public engagement, and report writing skills.",""],"UPPP 294B":["UPPP","Urban Planning Practicum II","Engages students in practical planning projects in the community under a central theme within Planning. Students take a problem-solving approach and employ and further develop data gathering, analysis, graphic and oral communication, public engagement, and report writing skills.","PPD 294A"],"UPPP 296":["UPPP","Doctoral Dissertation Research and Writing","Dissertation research with Urban Planning and Public Policy faculty.","Advancement to candidacy."],"UPPP 297":["UPPP","Research Design","Provides training in research design and methods. Students learn how to evaluate the strength of research findings based on the methods used by a researcher and learn to use lessons from the course to develop a research proposal.",""],"UPPP 298":["UPPP","Directed Studies in Urban Planning","Directed studies in Urban Planning.",""],"UPPP 299":["UPPP","Independent Study in Urban Planning","Independent Study in Urban Planning.",""],"VIETMSE 1A":["VIETMSE","Fundamentals of Vietnamese","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Vietnamese. Natural approach with emphasis on four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Conducted in Vietnamese.","Placement into VIETMSE 1A is required."],"VIETMSE 1B":["VIETMSE","Fundamentals of Vietnamese","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Vietnamese. Natural approach with emphasis on four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Conducted in Vietnamese.","VIETMSE 1A. VIETMSE 1A with a grade of C or better. Placement into VIETMSE 1B is also accepted."],"VIETMSE 1C":["VIETMSE","Fundamentals of Vietnamese","Designed for students with little or no exposure to Vietnamese. Natural approach with emphasis on four fundamental skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Conducted in Vietnamese.","VIETMSE 1B or VIETMSE S1AB. VIETMSE 1B with a grade of C or better. VIETMSE S1AB with a grade of C or better. Placement into VIETMSE 1C is also accepted. "],"VIETMSE 2A":["VIETMSE","Intermediate Vietnamese","Designed for students to advance their Vietnamese language skills from introductory to intermediate level. Designed to develop writing and reading skills and communicative skills in authentic situations. Students are introduced to aspects of Vietnamese culture relating to lesson topics.","VIETMSE 1C and VIETMSE S1BC. VIETMSE 1C with a grade of C or better. VIETMSE S1BC with a grade of C or better. Placement into VIETMSE 2A is also accepted."],"VIETMSE 2B":["VIETMSE","Intermediate Vietnamese","Designed for students to advance their Vietnamese language skills from introductory to intermediate level. Designed to develop writing and reading skills and communicative skills in authentic situations. Students are introduced to aspects of Vietnamese culture relating to lesson topics.","VIETMSE 2A. VIETMSE 2A with a grade of C or better. Placement into VIETMSE 2B is also accepted."],"VIETMSE 2C":["VIETMSE","Intermediate Vietnamese","Designed for students to advance their Vietnamese language skills from introductory to intermediate level. Designed to develop writing and reading skills and communicative skills in authentic situations. Students are introduced to aspects of Vietnamese culture relating to lesson topics.","VIETMSE 2B. VIETMSE 2B with a grade of C or better. Placement into VIETMSE 2C is also accepted."],"VIETMSE 10A":["VIETMSE","Vietnamese Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. VIETMSE 10A is for language mentors.",""],"VIETMSE 10B":["VIETMSE","Vietnamese Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program","Peer-to-Peer Language Mentor Program in which student mentors work with student mentees to increase the language skills of both participants. One hour weekly meetings. VIETMSE 10B is for language mentees.",""],"VIETMSE 50":["VIETMSE","Vietnamese Culture   ","Vietnamese culture and society in modern and historical contexts through the study of literary works, film, and other media. Philosophy and religious practices may also be examined. Course is taught in English.",""],"VIS STD 290A":["VIS STD","Art History:Theories and Methods","Examines canonical texts and explores current directions in Art History.",""],"VIS STD 290B":["VIS STD","Film & Media Studies: Theories and Methods","Examines canonical texts and explores current directions in Film and Media Studies.",""],"VIS STD 290C":["VIS STD","Visual Studies: Theories and Methods","Examines canonical texts and explores current directions in Visual Studies.",""],"VIS STD 294":["VIS STD","Getty Consortium Seminar","Special graduate seminar offered at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles, involving faculty and graduate students from the five graduate programs in Art History or Visual Studies located in southern California (UCI, UCLA, UCR, UCSB, and USC).",""],"VIS STD 295":["VIS STD","Graduate Seminar in Visual Studies","Studies in selected areas of Visual Studies. Topics addressed vary each quarter.",""],"VIS STD 296":["VIS STD","Directed Reading","Directed reading on a specific topic agreed upon by student and instructor.",""],"VIS STD 297":["VIS STD","Writing Practicum","Offered winter quarter each year and taught in a workshop format. Assists students with the preparation and revision of the dissertation prospectus so that they may advance to candidacy.","VIS STD 290A and VIS STD 290B and VIS STD 290C"],"VIS STD 298A":["VIS STD","Reading for the Preliminary Examination","Directed reading in preparation for the preliminary examination. Formerly Visual Studies 298.",""],"VIS STD 298B":["VIS STD","Prospectus Research","Research and writing of the dissertation prospectus.",""],"VIS STD 299":["VIS STD","Dissertation Research","Research and writing of the dissertation.",""],"WRITING 30":["WRITING","The Art of Writing: Poetry","Beginners' workshop in the writing of poetry, evaluation of student manuscripts, and parallel readings.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"WRITING 31":["WRITING","The Art of Writing: Prose Fiction","Beginners' workshop in fiction writing, evaluation of student manuscripts, and parallel readings.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement. "],"WRITING 40":["WRITING","Introduction to Writing and Rhetoric","Introduction to the principles of rhetoric through readings and writing assignments across a range of genres, including fiction, non-fiction, journalism and academic essays. Rigorous instruction in composition and style, including organization, paragraph development, sentence-level mechanics. Letter Grade with P\/NP Option.","Placement via the UC Analytical Writing Placement Examination is required."],"WRITING 40A":["WRITING","Introduction to Writing and Rhetoric with Lab","Introduces the principles of rhetoric through readings and writing assignments across a range of genres. Rigorous instruction in composition and style. Designed for students seeking additional English language support. Letter Grade with P\/NP Option.","Students must have taken the UC Analytical Writing Placement Examination and the Academic English Placement Test."],"WRITING 45":["WRITING","Intensive Writing","Critical reading and analysis conducted through literary, academic, journalistic, and fictional genres with additional instruction in paragraph development and sentence-level mechanics. Students analyze and apply rhetorical principles in a range of writing assignments. Letter Grade with P\/NP Option.","Students must have taken the UC Analytical Writing Placement Examination."],"WRITING 50":["WRITING","Critical Reading and Rhetoric","Critical reading and analysis conducted through literary, academic, journalistic, and fictional genres. Students analyze and apply rhetorical principles in a range of writing assignments. Letter Grade with P\/NP Option.","Satisfaction of the UC Entry Level Writing requirement."],"WRITING 60":["WRITING","Argument and Research","Intensive instruction in research methods, argumentation, and rhetorical invention. Readings selected from current nonfiction and materials located by students from the University library's holdings, to include databases across a range of disciplines. Letter Grade with P\/NP Option.","WRITING 45 or WRITING 50 or AP36 or AP37. WRITING 45 with a grade of C or better. WRITING 50 with a grade of C or better. AP36 with a minimum score of 4. AP37 with a minimum score of 4"],"WRITING 90":["WRITING","Intermediate Poetry Writing","Intermediate workshop in the writing of poetry, evaluation of student manuscripts, and parallel readings.","WRITING 30 or WRITING 31"],"WRITING 91":["WRITING","Intermediate Fiction Writing","Intermediate workshop in the writing of fiction, evaluation of student manuscripts, and parallel readings.","WRITING 30 or WRITING 31"],"WRITING 101W":["WRITING","Undergraduate Seminar: Applications in Literary Theory and Criticism for Creative Writing","Readings in literature, with discussions and written rhetorical responses on their making.","(WRITING 30 or WRITING 31) and (WRITING 90 or WRITING 91) and (WRITING 30 or WRITING 31 or WRITING 90 or WRITING 91 or ENGLISH 16 or ENGLISH 17). Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"WRITING 110":["WRITING","Short Story Writing","Three-hour workshop in short fiction; discussion of student writing and of relevant literary texts.",""],"WRITING 111":["WRITING","Poetry Writing","Three-hour advanced poetry writing workshop; discussion of student writing and of relevant literary texts.",""],"WRITING 113":["WRITING","Novel Writing","Three-hour advanced workshop in fiction writing; discussion of student writing and of relevant literary texts.",""],"WRITING 139W":["WRITING","Advanced Expository Writing","Study of rhetoric, disciplinary genres, and modes of knowledge production; practice in writing effective prose. Essays of varying lengths, totaling at least 4,000 words.","Satisfactory completion of the Lower-Division Writing requirement."],"WRITING 197":["WRITING","Writing Internship  ","Internships focused on writing. In consultation with a faculty advisor, students create a course from response essays, research essays, and assessment project data. Internships may include editing and publication projects, supervised teaching and tutoring assignments, community literacy projects.","Satisfactory completion of the lower-division writing requirement."],"WRITING 250A":["WRITING","Graduate Writers' Workshop (Fiction)","Graduate fiction workshop open to students enrolled in the MFA program in Writing.",""],"WRITING 250B":["WRITING","Graduate Writers' Workshop (Fiction)","Graduate fiction workshop open to students enrolled in the MFA program in Writing.",""],"WRITING 250C":["WRITING","Graduate Writers' Workshop (Poetry)","Graduate poetry workshop open to students enrolled in the M.F.A. Programs in Writing.",""],"WRITING 251A":["WRITING","Writing in Conference (Fiction)","Graduate fiction workshop open to students enrolled in the MFA program in Writing.",""],"WRITING 251B":["WRITING","Writing in Conference (Fiction)","Graduate fiction workshop open to students enrolled in the MFA program in Writing.",""],"WRITING 251C":["WRITING","Writing in Conference (Poetry)","Graduate poetry workshop open to students enrolled in the M.F.A. Programs in Writing.",""]}